Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Chairman, College of Fellows, Nigerian Institute of Building, Mr Ehikioya Anegbe, has challenged the fellows and members of the institute to deliver on the core mandate of the organisation by ensuring safe buildings for habitation in the country. Anegbe enjoined the NIOB members to be guided by their moral sense of judgment in the course of their professional duties. Speaking during his swearing-in ceremony in Abuja as the Chairman, College of Fellows, NIOB, Anegbe pledged to work with the fellows and members of the institute to take the profession to a higher height. He also assured that he would carry along the aged members of the institute, especially fellows with records of achievements. The chairman called on the built industry professionals to participate in the programmes of the institute, noting that the NIOB boasts of members from the academia, including Chancellors, Vice-Chancellors, top civil servants, governors and legislators, among others, with wealth of experience. He said, “The College of Fellows derives its legitimacy from Article 12:1 of the NIOB constitution wherein it stipulates: ‘The College of Fellows shall act as the conscience of the institute’. “The term conscience obliged NIOB fellows to apply their moral sense of judgment to guide and advise the institute in character, intentions and obligations to deliver on the core mandate of builders to procure safe buildings for Nigerian habitation. “I implore fellows to participate fully in the programmes of the institute and fellows’ meetings and to come up with suggestions and ideas in all relevant areas to deliver on our services to our nation, humanity and ourselves.” Anegbe lauded his predecessor, Mrs Adebolanle Araba, whom he praised for steering the COF in the past three years. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 