Following the sudden death of the then Head of State, General Sani Abacha, on June 8, 1998, his successor, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, bowed to pressure by announcing a timetable for the return to democratic rule within one year. A group of 34 prominent Nigerians, who vehemently opposed the succession plan of the late former head of state, formed the core of the founding fathers of the Peoples Democratic Party. The party attracted a large number of Second Republic politicians, retired senior military officers, businessmen and intellectuals across ethno-religious lines. Within this period, a former military ruler, General Olusegun Obasanjo (retd.), now Chief Obasanjo, who prior to this time, was detained by the Abacha junta over a phantom coup, was granted state pardon by general Abubakar. Obasanjo later stood on the platform of the PDP and was elected President in 1999. The party soon established itself as the dominant party after it won 54.5 per cent of the popular votes in the election. It also won 223 out of the 360 seats in the House of Representatives, and 76 out of the 109 seats in the Senate. At the height of its power, some of its leaders described the PDP as the “biggest party in black and white Africa.” At inception, party leaders entered into a gentleman’s agreement to rotate political power between the North and the South. Giving an insight into how this came about, a one-time National Chairman of the PDP, now National Chairman, Arewa Consultative Forum, Chief Audu Ogbeh, said in an interview with Sunday PUNCH, “In 1998, we had a meeting in Jerry Gana’s house and the late Chief Sunday Awoniyi said to us, ‘look, after this June 12 thing, let us be careful, let’s not put up any northerner to contest the election.’ Ogbe quoted Awoniyi as saying, “I am a Yoruba man born in the modern day Kogi, I am a northerner and very close to Sardauna; the mood of the South is that, if the North continues to behave like this, (cling on to power), they may as well stay away.” According to the former minister of Agriculture, the agreement was and is still in the interest of Nigeria’s unity. After Obasanjo’s constitutionally allowed two terms, (1999-2003, 2003-2007), a Muslim from the North, Umaru Yar’Adua, and a southern minority Christian, Goodluck Jonathan, were elected President and Vice President, respectively in 2007. However, the unusual happened as Yar’Adua took ill and later died. This made power to unexpectedly returned to the South in 2010. The then Vice President, Goodluck Jonathan, became Acting President and later President, following Yar’Adua’s sudden death. Jonathan contested and won the 2011 presidential election which was largely adjudged free and fair. As the nation was preparing for the 2015 general elections, the simmering internal wrangling within the PDP over what most northerners within the party described as Jonathan’s breach of the gentlemen’s agreement, led to the exit of several party members including five serving governors. By the time the dust settled, the PDP had lost the election to the newly formed All Progressives Congress and thereby found itself in an unfamiliar territory as the main opposition party, for the first time in 16 years. Commenting on the reason for PDP’s fall from power in 2015, a former National Publicity Secretary of the party, Abdullahi Jalo, said, “There were several factors. Apart from the growing insecurity especially in the North, the party had deviated from the democratic culture put in place by its founding fathers.” As if that was not enough, a fresh leadership struggle ensued as a former Borno State Governor, Ali Modu Sheriff, and a former Kaduna State Governor, Ahmed Makarfi, at various points laid claim to the party’s national chairmanship.  The fight further weakened the party thus causing further division within its ranks. After a series of litigations, the Supreme Court eventually sacked Sheriff and pronounced Makarfi as authentic chairman of the party. Eventually, party leaders -especially governors, reached out to one another and agreed it was time to rescue the party and set it on the path to recovery. The onus to rebuild “Africa’s biggest party” fell on a former PDP Deputy National Chairman (South), Uche Secondus, who emerged as the National Chairman in 2017. If Secondus thought he was in for a tea party, he and the new National Working Committee were given a rude shock when prior to the 2019 general election, a fresh gale of defections hit the party. Some of its founding fathers, such as: the pioneer National Secretary, Professor Jerry Gana, and Professor Tunde Adeniran, resigned their membership to join the Social Democratic Party. Several others followed. Amidst the confusion, the party again lost the 2019 general election to the APC. Although Secondus failed to lead the party to regain the top spot at the national level, the new national chairman and his team succeeded in improving the party’s fortunes in several states. The party increased its tally of states under its control from 10 in 2015 to 15 by 2020. The ruling APC had swept 21 states during the 2015 general elections. But by 2019, out of the 29 states where governorship elections were held, it won in 15 while the PDP took 14. To the credit of the new team, the PDP made inroads into Zamfara State, a traditional stronghold of the APC. The PDP also won Bauchi, Imo, Oyo, and Adamawa states. It, however, lost Kwara and Gombe states and later Imo State, following a Supreme Court judgement which nullified the victory of its candidate, Emeka Ihedioha, in a judgement which left members of the public as well as prominent lawyers puzzled till this day. Determined to learn from the mistakes of the past, the party’s National Executive Committee set up the Governor Bala Mohammed- 2019 Election Review Committee to examine the real reasons behind its electoral defeat. The committee has since held meetings with some of the party’s founding fathers/members such as: Obasanjo; former President, Goodluck Jonathan; former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar; former  Senate President, David Mark; among others. The panel is to among other things find out what went wrong, how corrections can be made and the way forward. The panel was also given the mandate to reach out to all party members who have held various elective and appointive positions since 1999, as long as they are still members of the party. Just as the team set out to work, a crisis of confidence erupted in Mohammed’s home state, Bauchi. Former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, and a former PDP Senator representing Bauchi Central, Hamman Misau, dumped the party. As part of efforts to carry the power blocs along, the party leadership also sought and got the support of its serving governors. The Chairman of the PDP Governors Forum, who is also the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, confirmed this when he said, “We will bring in former governors, former ministers that served in the party. They are very resourceful; they are our leaders and they have a lot to contribute for the development of the party and our country.  So, we shall relate more closely with them towards rebuilding the party and of course, deepening democracy in Nigeria.” Party watchers also expressed the view that the ability of the leadership to provide a level -playing field for aspirants who contested the Edo State governorship ticket, for example, played a major role in the party’s historic victory in the September 19 governorship election in the state. The Chairman of the party’s Board of Trustees, Senator Walid Jibrin, while speaking to Sunday PUNCH, on the new thinking within the party, said, “What the party leadership did in Edo was exemplary. Apart from the hitch-free primary, we were able to unite members and former aspirants to achieve victory. We are still studying what happened in the case of Ondo State (where it list the governorship election) and the party will come out with its position very soon.” However, the party still has a lot of reconciliations to do. Fresh challenges and new threats to its cohesion are rearing their heads. Only recently, the PDP-controlled Ebonyi State Assembly as well as the state chapter of the party have threatened unpleasant political consequences for the party should it fail to zone the presidency to the South-East in 2023. The party is still grappling with the challenges of managing the simmering crisis in the South-West and will soon be expected to put to rest the contentious zoning formula which contributed in no small measure to the 2015 crisis. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, is however confident about the party’s prospects. He explained that, even though the party has for now, suspended political activities in honour of youths who lost their lives during the #EndSARS protests, it would not rest on its oars. Ologbondiyan said, “What we are doing at the National Working Committee level at the moment, is taking steps to strengthen our party. We have by-elections into the National Assembly to prepare for. We also have governorship elections in Anambra, Ekiti, and Osun states before the 2023 presidential elections. So, for now, our main concern is to steady the party, work in harmony with the state executives in the respective areas where we have elections and see how we can win these elections. We are working to strengthen our party and to steady it ahead of all elections.” How well the party is able to manage its internal affairs especially with the speculated presidential ambition of some of its major players ahead of 2023, remains to be seen. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com