Justin Tyopuusu and Bola Bamigbola The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps in Taraba State, Selina Williams, on Friday said the state recorded 23 deaths from 121 road crashes in the third quarter of 2020. This is contained in a statement by Assistant Route Commander, Okwodowa Paul, who is also the command’s Public Education Officer in Jalingo. The statement issued in commemoration of the 2020 African Road Safety Day and World Day of Remembrance, stated that 195 vehicles were involved in the crash, while 338 people sustained injuries. Williams noted that speed violation, wrongful overtaking and tyre burst were major causes of road crashes during the period. She appealed to motorists to desist from buying used tyres, noting that more lives could be saved if they used brand new tyres. She noted that most crashes were avoidable if motorists obeyed traffic rules and regulations. Meanwhile, a yet-to-be-identified commuter on Friday lost his life in a lone accident that occurred around Ibodi junction, along Ilesa/Ife Expressway when the car he was travelling in lost control and ran into a tree beside the road. Although the details of the driver of the vehicle could not be ascertained, his car, a Toyota Camry, had a large ‘L’ alphabet tied to its trunk, indicating that the driver was still a learner. The Osun Sector Command Public Education Officer, Agnes Ogungbemi, said the crash occurred around 10.30am. She said, “It was a lone accident. Four people were involved. But one of them, a male, died while three others sustained injuries. The car ran into a tree. “Remains of the deceased were taken to the morgue of Wesley Guild Hospital, Ilesa and the victims were also taken to the same hospital for treatment.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   