Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan The Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi, has disagreed with the Oyo State Governor, Mr Seyi Makinde, on his plan to turn the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, to a multi-campus institution. The Vice Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Navy, Capt. Adejumo Ajao (retd), also called on the governor to rescind the move. The National Universities Commission recently ceded the university to Oyo State and ceded the LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, to Osun State. After this, Makimde made known the plan of his administration to turn the university into a multi-campus institution. But Oba Oyewumi, who spoke in an interview with our correspondent in Ibadan through his Private Secretary, Mr Toyin Ajamu, rejected this proposal. He said, “Kabiyesi disagrees with the proposal of the governor to turn LAUTECH into a multi-campus institution. He was one of the stakeholders who fought for the establishment of the university then; and that was not part of the proposal for the university. “There are other institutions owned by Oyo State which are not multi-campus. So why should LAUTECH be the only one? Kabiyesi is not happy about this. Those institutions in other towns are not shared with other towns. This is not the position of Kabiyesi alone; it is the position of the entire Ogbomoso people.” Also, the lawmaker, who represents  Ogbomoso North, South and Orire Federal Constituency said taking some faculties away from Ogbomoso would be tantamount to hatred because there were institutions in other towns which were not shared with other region. The lawmaker said this in a statement by his Director of Media, Strategy and Publicity, Mr Olusola Olayanju. Ajao said, “I will like to refresh the memory of Governor Seyi Makinde-led administration that each of the zones in the state has one or more state institutions; (Oyo has EACOED, Ibarapa with College of Agriculture Igboora, Oke Ogun with Polytechnic at Eruwa and Saki, while Ibadan has Technical University) without any campus in Ogbomoso. It will be tantamount to hatred if the decision to turn LAUTECH to a multi-campus institution sees the light of the day. “Though making LAUTECH a multi-campus institution has its advantages, the adverse effects are numerous. So,  I call on His Excellency, Seyi Makinde, to critically access the situation and rescind his decision on the move.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 