Patrick Odey, Uyo Operatives of Akwa Ibom State Police Command have killed two suspected armed robbers during a shootout in the Essien Udim Local government Area of the state. The two suspects were confirmed dead after being taken to hospital while eight members of the gang were arrested. A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Odiko Macdon, on Friday said the command also arrested three suspected cult members at Ikot Atai village, who allegedly robbed and inflicted injuries on their victims with machetes. Items recovered from the suspects include “two locally-made pistols, two axes, 86 live cartridges, five expended cartridges, charms, the sum of N9,150.00, one SIM card and four big bags.” The statement read in part, “On November 25, 2020, around 10pm, a distress call was received about an ongoing armed robbery operation at Obo Annang Junction in Essien Udim Local Government Area. A combined team of operatives, coordinated by the Area Commander Ikot Ekpene, ACP Nasir Kankarofo, led to exchange of gunfire with the hoodlums. “One Pius Ubong and Sunny (other name unknown) were hit and confirmed dead after being taken to the hospital while Stephen Dominic, 20; Sunday Akpan, 22 and Friday Emmanuel Akpan, 32, who are members of the same gang were arrested. “On the same day, the Divisional Police Officer of Essien Udim, CSP Samuel Isiek, led a combined team of tactical squads to raid criminal hideouts around Essien Udim, which led to the arrest of five hoodlums suspected to have robbed Obo Annang Market earlier in the week.” The PPRO said the robbery suspects, Aniekan Udo, Samuel Ekong and Gabriel Eyo, were arrested on November 21 at Obot Idim Junction by a team led by the DPO of the area, SP Ahmadu Bello. Two laptops, machetes, scissors and torches were reportedly recovered from them. The statement added, “The Commissioner of Police, Andrew Amiengheme, warned perpetrators of cultism, armed robbery and other heinous crimes to desist forthwith or vacate the state as the command will make the state very hot for them to thrive. “Andrew assured the people of the state that the command will beef up security in all parts of the state, especially as we approach the yuletide season.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      