Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State High Court has summoned the speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr. Bamidele Oleyeloogun and three members of the Assembly for alleged contempt of court. Also summoned along with the speaker were: the Clerk of the Assembly, the Parliamentary Secretary, Abayomi Akinruntan, and the Deputy Majority Leader, Oladiji Olamide Adesanmi Counsel to the three suspended lawmakers, Mr. Olabanjo Ayenakin had on behalf of his clients, filed contempt charges against the defendants at the state High Court for failing to obey the court order. The three suspended lawmakers were: former Deputy Speaker,  Mr. Iroju Ogundeji,  Mrs. Favour Tomomewo and Mr. Wale Williams. The affected lawmakers were suspended by the House leadership for alleged gross misconduct in June this year. However, the state High Court in Akure, ordered their reinstatement while the Court of Appeal also dismissed the stay of execution order filed by the Assembly and ordered for the reinstatement of three. Apart from ordering for the reinstatement of the lawmakers, the Appeal Court judgement delivered by Justice Oyebisi Omoleye also ordered the appellants to pay the sum of N250.000.00 jointly and severally to the lawmakers as damages. However, the House is said to have refused to reinstate the lawmakers,  claiming that they had not served the order of the appeal court which dismissed the stay of execution order. When contacted,  the Chairman House Committee,  Mr. Gbenga Omole said the House was not aware of any court  summon because the House had already  appealed the appeal court judgement on the stay of execution order,  at the Supreme Court. He said, “We are not aware of any court summon . As I am talking to you our lawyer has filed an appeal against the Court of Appeal judgement on the stay of execution at the Supreme Court while the main appeal is still pending at the appellate court.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 