Adebayo Folorunsho-Francis The Lagos branch of the Nigerian Red Cross Society says having only one ambulance to attend to emergencies in a state of over 20 million people is hindering its activities. The humanitarian body said the challenge became more obvious during the #ENDSARS protest that spiralled into bloody violence across the state. In an exclusive interview with PUNCH HealthWise, the training director, Ige Oladimeji said it was part of their role as a humanitarian aid organisation to also respond to victims who sustained injuries during the #ENDSARS protest. “Unfortunately, our visibility was not fully felt due to the mobility challenge. As we speak, it may surprise you to learn that the Nigerian Red Cross has only one ambulance in the whole of Lagos State, and we have been using it for 15 years. “It is not enough to effectively use it to respond to emergencies like the #ENDSARS crisis. There is no way one ambulance can cope well,” he said. To address the perennial problem of mobility, he said, the Red Cross Society must have, at least, seven ambulances to function at optimal level. According to him, several Emergency First Aid Team members in all the local governments were almost overwhelmed attending to bleeding from wounds during the protest. “We also gave psychosocial support to victims who we discovered were traumatised when the #ENDSARS protest was hijacked by suspected hoodlums. “The Lagos Red Cross is in dire need of help. Disaster management is everybody’s responsibility. That is why there must be a contingency plan. “We will appreciate if the state government and private organisations can come to our aid. These ambulances are our immediate need for now. “They are the reason we could not respond adequately to all the distress calls we received during the #ENDSARS protest. It boils down to the non-availability of vehicles at our disposal,” he appealed. Continuing, Oladimeji said the NRCS works in collaboration with the National Emergency Management Agency and Lagos State Emergency Management in the areas of disaster management. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 