The National Library annually embarks on a reading campaign to encourage Nigerians across the 36 states; how do you hope to achieve this in 2020 with the COVID-19 situation? Obviously, this year’s Readership Promotion Campaign will be different. RPC needs interaction with participants – students, nursing mothers, inmates in correctional centres, rural communities and drivers, conductors and passengers in motor parks. But the campaign will still go on using the following non-interactive strategies. One, the national television channels will be used to reach the target. There will be a symposium on the campaign; national dignitaries will be invited to read to Nigerians and give talks on the importance of reading. There will be radio talks in all the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The talk will be in English, pidgin English and indigenous languages. Two, a national essay competition on the importance of reading will be organised for primary and secondary schools in Nigeria. Books worth N50,000 will be donated to the library of one correctional centre in each of the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. We are also producing a well-researched video documentary propagating and advocating the gains of a robust reading culture. This documentary shall be aired on national television and, also on our website as well as social media handles. Activities in 2020 have been largely distorted with the COVID-19 pandemic; in what ways has the pandemic affected the services of the national library? COVID-19 was unexpected and it affected our services negatively. Most of our branches had to close down because only senior officers were mandated to resume after the initial lockdown, as the lower cadre stayed back at home. Thus, our users could not benefit from our information materials and services.  It seems I had long expected that we may be in a situation in which we will not be able to physically provide our services to the general public, hence my advocacy for virtual library services so that any user can access our services no matter how remotely located. As a proactive measure, we acquired two scanning machines last year. The more sophisticated of the two was ordered from Austria. In order to ensure our workers master the use of the scanner, we sent three members of staff to Austria and Czech Republic (the other manufacturing country) to master the use and also how to deal with any problem that arises. We have started digitising government publications using the Fujitsu ADF Scanner we acquired from the United Kingdom. We expect the manufacturers of the Quidenus Robotic Scanner to come down to Nigeria to install the machine as soon as international travels permit. In short, in the future, our services will no longer be affected even if the physical library is closed down. Also, we have made it possible for authors and publishers to obtain the International Standard Book Number and the International Standard Serial Number online. They do not have to visit our branches or the headquarters any more in order to obtain ISBN and ISSN. All they need to do is to visit our website. Specifically during the lockdown in March and April, what was the situation of the library? How were you able to keep a record of publications? As I earlier mentioned, there was no problem of keeping our publications, as the senior staff were on hand to offer skeletal services. Even now, not all staff members are in the office in order to provide adequate spacing for social distancing. Going by the aftermath of this pandemic in our country, what safety measures have you put in place for Nigerians coming to use the National Library? We just follow the directives given by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on safety.  Specifically, we acquired a temperature measure device, provided sanitiser, running water and liquid soap for washing hands, and we have been observing social distance at the headquarters and branches. Wearing of face masks is compulsory for all users of our services. Would you say since there was a lockdown and stay-at-home, the reading culture of Nigerians improved as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic? This is our expectation. People have much time to devote to reading as other competing recreational activities are now at a low ebb. There were limited social activities, no football matches, etc. Nature abhors vacuum. I guess there was increased tempo in reading and I hope this will be sustained. You said last November that the National Library was working with six state governments to establish a branch of the library in each state. What stage is that partnership presently? Our mandate is to establish a branch in each state of the federation. Presently we have nine states without National Library of Nigeria’s presence but as a result of our being proactive, we requested to have branches in the nine states early January this year, stating the criteria which include presence of a virile state library board; provision of temporary accommodation for immediate occupation; and provision of a plot of land measuring a predetermined size for the building of our permanent prototype. Five states responded positively and we intend to establish our presence in the five states before the end of the year. These states are Akwa-Ibom, Anambra, Bayelsa, Ebonyi and Ekiti. A delegation of the National Library led by me has already visited Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa and Ebonyi states. We have confirmed our readiness to take off and we have started deploying library furniture and office equipment to these states. We shall be visiting Anambra this month and Ekiti next month. In order to take immediate action, our delegation always comprises me, the director in charge of state branches, a staff member of Procurement Department for the purpose of identifying items needed for each branch, a staff member of Physical Planning Unit for the purpose of putting finishing touches on temporary accommodation provided to us, and the head of the nearest branch to the proposed national library branch, who will be the link between the headquarters in Abuja and the concerned state. We are of course encouraging Delta, Kebbi and Zamfara states to join the train. We used to have a branch in Yobe State but it was destroyed by insurgents beyond repairs. I will shortly be visiting Yobe State to discuss with the authorities on how we can move forward in re-establishing our presence. My ultimate aim is to have the presence of a national library in all the 36 states by the end of my tenure next year. How has the digitisation process that is being carried out by the National Library in conjunction with Norway been going? Has it been slowed down by the pandemic? We were approached by the National Library of Norway to partner with it, in order to digitise books in local languages in the National Library of Nigeria so that they can make the digitised publications available to their readers in Norway. We had problems with copyright issues. We have not resolved the problem, but now, we are in a position to digitise our local language publications since we have now purchased our sophisticated scanning machines.  So, though we are still open to mutually beneficial partnerships with Norway and any other country, the partnership may take a different form. All we need to do is to put all the Nigerian publications on our website once we clear with the Reproduction Rights Society of Nigeria and the Nigerian Copyrights Commission. Any country can now access Nigerian publications on our website with a token payment that we shall give to the authors of accessed publications, as royalties. We have already started with government publications which do not have copyright issues. We shall shortly invite the two commissions for a tripartite meeting in Abuja to resolve all problems connected with copyright. By July 2021, you will be rounding off your administration, what are some key achievements you would like to recall? Some of them are: one, formulation of a five-year (2020-2024) Strategic Plan for the National Library of Nigeria. This is to provide a pathway for the growth of the library. We have a comprehensive draft amendment bill of NLN Act to be submitted to the National Assembly.  For example, the 1970 Act prescribes N100 for not obeying legal deposit law, it has been increased to N250,000. The 1970 Act does not exclusively give the National Library of Nigeria the sole responsibility of issuing ISSN – this has been corrected; making issuing of fake ISBN and ISSN criminal; the law also makes the launching of books without obtaining clearance from the National Library of Nigeria, criminal. We have also repositioned the national library by creating virtual services which make resources available to Nigerian citizens, regardless of their locations. Also, there has been up-to-date auditing of accounts. When I assumed duty in 2016, there was a four-year backlog of unaudited accounts, but we have since provided audited reports for the years 2012 to 2018. We are now working on 2019 and by the time I complete my term in July 2021, 2020 audited accounts would have been ready. Similarly, there was a backlog of unpublished National Bibliography of Nigeria. This is an annual publication that contains the list of all local publications that have been deposited with the National Library of Nigeria during the year. But we have now published it up to date. Despite these, what are some challenges that still stare the national library in the face? One, there is an increment in the cost of maintaining our temporary headquarters building through repairs on a regular basis. The building is old. Due to the fact that rents are not paid as and when due, the building has to be maintained from our paltry funds. Recently, the government paid part of the rent arrears and the landlord was able to paint our building. There are many uncompleted projects in the states because of the slow pace of work by our contractors. Some of the projects that were started in 2010 have not been completed, in spite of the fact that the government funds these projects regularly. The Tenders Board had to terminate the contract of the projects recently in Calabar, Cross River State and Ibadan, Oyo State. Also, we have the non-employment of new workers. The National Library of Nigeria recruited last in 2014 despite the exit of over 100 workers due to retirement, resignation, and so on. This has affected our services badly. During the COVID-19 stay at home, Nigerians expectedly experienced a baby boom. What advice do you have for our teeming pregnant mothers about reading? It has been proved scientifically that there is a communication link between an unborn baby and the mother. Several studies have revealed that mother and child communicate constantly. This is why it is advocated that a pregnant mother must read aloud to her baby so that when the baby is born, reading will be a permanent feature of the child. Coming to your question, I expect nursing mothers to devote much time to reading to their babies since they now have abundant time. I recall that the National Library is working on a directory for all schools to be equipped with libraries. What have you achieved so far in this regard? Yes, as you know, the present government is hammering on delivering quality education to Nigerians. The library is a key component or driver of quality education. As required by the National Policy on Education, every school must have a library. But in reality, not all schools have libraries, and this will adversely affect whatever efforts the government is making towards raising the quality of education. So as the National Library, our duty is to offer policy advice in that area. So, we embarked on this project, in collaboration with the Nigeria Library Association to gather reliable data of the total number of schools (both private and public, primary and secondary) that have libraries in each state. The enumeration will also provide information such as the number of these libraries that are being manned by qualified librarians, etc. At the end of the field exercise, we shall collate the data and produce a directory. But beyond just producing the directory, we shall give necessary advice to the government and even drive the initiative, if given the mandate. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   