Wale Oyewale Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Saturday described former General Secretary of the Nigerian Baptist Convention, the late Rev. Ola Akande, as a fearless preacher who was aversed to societal as well as governmental vices. Obasanjo spoke at the funeral service for the deceased held at the Oritamefa Baptism Church, Ibadan. According to the former President, the late cleric in the Baptist Convention was vehemently against cultism and secret societies. He recalled how the deceased, as his home pastor at Owu Baptist Church – Abeokuta, between 1966 and 1965 and Ebenezer Baptist Church – Lagos, between 1966 and 1969, became a friend whom he held in high esteem. On Akande’s involvement in the nation’s political sphere, he said as a member of the Electoral Commission in 1965, Akande refused to compromise. [READ ALSO] PHOTOS: Sanusi, Lawan, others gather as El-Rufai’s son weds Kazaure’s daughter Obasanjo, who urged the children of the deceased to be comforted by the good name and heritage left behind by their father, said, “Late Akande contested as a candidate in the presidential primaries of the defunct National Republican Convention in 1991, won at the old Oyo State level but lost at the national level. “He will be remembered for his forthrightness, doggedness, dynamism, welfarism, anti-corruption, estachological, discourse, courage, commitment to ethical values, uprightness, unwavering Christian testimony and purposeful leadership.” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who was represented at the occasion by Pastor Seyi Malomo, said late Akande was an exemplary preacher whose selflessness and broad-mindedness should be emulated by all Christians. The President, Christian Association of Nigeria, Dr Supo Ayokunle, also described the late Akande as a man of many parts who was gifted and fearless. In a sermon titled, ‘Celebrating God’s extraordinary grace,’ the CAN chairman, North Central, Rev Israel Akanji, noted that the late Akande was a product of God’s extraordinary grace, saying the grace the deceased received during his lifetime was effective. Pa Akande died at the age of 94 on September 10 in his Ibadan residence.