Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Some traders and residents on Kano Street, in the Ebute Meta area of Lagos State, on Monday lamented heavy losses after fire gutted some shanties and makeshift structures in the community. PUNCH Metro learnt that the fire, which started around 6pm on Sunday, was caused by an electric spark after power was restored in the area. It was gathered that the fire emanated from one of the shanties before spreading to other parts of the community. A resident, Ifadamilare Adeoye, told our correspondent that the fire expanded after a cooking gas in one of the shanties exploded. He said, “Around 6pm on Sunday, there was a spark in one of the shanties in the area when power was restored and the fire started from there before it escalated to other areas. “As the fire started and people were packing their belongings, the fire got to a cooking gas and it exploded, destroying everything in the community. People living in these shanties have lost their property; we want the government to come to our aid.” A timber trader in the area, Emmanuel Iwuoha, while lamenting his losses, said he was unable to salvage any of his goods because he was not around when the fire started. He said, “I have a timber shop here and yesterday (Sunday), I was called that fire had taken over this place. When I came here this morning, I saw that all I had was gone; all my materials, industrial machines at the shop had been destroyed by the fire. I lost over a million naira to the fire. “We want the government to allow us to develop this place back because this is where we get our daily bread and if we can’t put back the structure again, all of us will be stranded. We want the government to provide an avenue on how we can have access to money because we have lost everything.” Another resident, Omowunmi Adesina, urged the state government to allow the victims to rebuild their structures without acquiring the land from them. Another trader, Obioma Ihesiulo, said he lost over N4m worth of goods to the fire. Our correspondent learnt that responders at the scene were men of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Lagos State Fire Service, Federal Fire Service, and the police. The acting Head of the Lagos State Fire Service, Margaret Adeseye, said the cause of the fire had yet to be ascertained, adding that the Iganmu and Ilupeju fire stations put out the fire. She said, “We received a call around 8.38pm about the fire and on arrival at the scene, we met a very well alight fire, covering about 1944 square meters. The structures involved were makeshift structures built in a swampy area, which made it difficult for our fire engine to navigate the environment because the terrain is not friendly because of its swampy nature. However, our Iganmu and Ilupeju fire stations extinguished the fire about four hours later around 12.30am.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     