Raphael Ede and Dennis Naku THE Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra on Wednesday condemned what it described as ‘genocidal and atrocious’ activities of Nigeria Army against the people of Biafra in Oyigbo, River State. A leader of the pro-Biafra group, Uchenna Madu, condemned the activities of the military at the 87th posthumous birthday anniversary of Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu in Enugu, warning that Nigeria should not push Biafra agitators to arms conflict as it would be disastrous. Describing Governor Nyesom Wike’s denial of his Igbo identity as unfortunate, Madu reminded him that the presidency or the Fulani cabal would never honour him for killing his people. Wike had said he never ordered the killing of Igbo in Rivers State, describing the allegation against him as politically-motivated falsehood. But Madu said, “MASSOB condemns the genocidal and atrocious activities of the Nigerian Army against the people of Biafra in Obigbo (Oyigbo). MASSOB described Governor Nyesom Wike’s denial of his Igbo identity as unfortunate and unstableness. “MASSOB is begging the Federal Government not to push our members to arms conflict because the end is what nobody can tell.” IPOB members stole 50 AK-47 rifles from police – Rivers In a related development, the Rivers State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim, has said that members of the Indigenous People of Biafra, who attacked three police stations in Oyigbo LGA and killed10 security operatives, stole over 50 AK-47 ruffles. Nsirim noted that efforts aimed at recovering the stolen rifles would be maintained. The commissioner stated this at the Government House, Port Harcourt, following the State Security Council meeting on Tuesday. According to Nsirim, “It has to be underscored that during the mayhem that claimed the lives of security personnel carrying out their legitimate duties, 50 AK-47 rifles were carted away. “As a result of this, security agencies will continue to embark on surveillance and search operations to recover the missing rifles which are now in the illegal possession of some persons.” IPOB’s action invited military– Uwazuruike Meanwhile, the founder of the Biafra Independence Movement and the Movement for the Emancipation of the Sovereign State of Biafra, Ralph Uwazuruike, said the actions of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra in Oyigbo LGA invited the military to the area. Uwazuruike also dismissed claims that the Wike, was after the Igbo in the state, saying,  those trying to change the narrative of what happened in Oyigbo should desist from what he termed ‘rubbish.’ Uwazuruike, who spoke in a video trending on social media, obtained by our correspondent said he had been inundated with calls requesting him to ask Wike to stop the killing of Igbo people in Rivers State. He added, “It is not within the powers of Wike to stop the army from killing those who killed their own. So, these people who go about on the internet, talking rubbish that Nyesom Wike is killing Ndigbo, please don’t speak for us. “The soldiers are killing those who killed their own. This has nothing to do with #EndSARS.  #EndSARS (people) were doing their thing until the government or hoodlums went to the Lekki tollgate to kill some people. Then someone in London started that minute to say kill army, kill police, burn houses. “Then his (Nnamdi Kanu) supporters in Oyigbo started killing, because he gave them instruction. It was on tape,” he stated. The MASSOB founder said Kanu’s actions and utterances would cause further damage if he is not stopped by Ndigbo. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 