Joseph Olaoluwa The hospitality sector has continued to grapple with losses in the first nine months of 2020. The hospitality firms, Transcorp Hotels Plc, Ikeja Hotel Plc and Capital Hotel Plc,  suffered a combined loss of N7.3bn for the first nine months of the year, compared to the same period of 2019. This is in contrast to their profitability scorecard in 2019, where the firms made a combined profit of N1.3bn in the nine-month period. Transcorp Hotels Plc reported the biggest loss in the nine-month period, posting a N5.6bn loss from N683.8m profit in the same period a year ago. Its revenue dwindled by 53.7 per cent to N6.7bn from N14.6bn, according to its unaudited financial statements obtained from the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Ikeja Hotel Plc, posted a loss of N1.4bn for the nine month period ended September 30, down from the N429.1m profit recorded in the same period a year ago. Its unaudited financial statement showed that its turnover dropped to N3.6bn in the period under review from N9.1bn in the same period of 2019, representing a decline of 60.4 per cent. Capital Hotel made a loss of N256.5m, compared to a profit of N221m it recorded in the same period last year. The firm’s turnover plunged to N1.4bn in the period under review from N3.7bn in the first nine months of 2019. Transcorp Hotels in September said it was diversifying its portfolio and reducing its workforce as part of its cost management initiatives. This was due to the  unprecedented losses it suffered, according to a statement by the Managing Director, Mrs Dupe Olusola. Olusola had said, “The impact of COVID-19 on the business is like nothing the company has ever witnessed. “The hotel and hospitality industry in Nigeria has never faced a crisis that brought travel to a standstill, including the Ebola virus outbreak of 2014 and the recession of 2015. “The slow pick-up of international travel, restriction on large gatherings, the switch to virtual meetings and fear of the virus, have drastically reduced demand for our hotels and occupancy levels to its lowest of less than five per cent.” In the following month, October, Transcorp Hotels Plc sought N10bn from existing shareholders via a rights issue of about 2.6bn ordinary shares of 50 Kobo each at N3.76 per share. The rights issue was made on the basis of seven new shares for every 20 shares held as of 13 July 2020. Speaking at the Extra-Ordinary General meeting in Lagos, the Chairman of Transcorp Hotels Plc, Mr Emmanuel Nnorom, said the right issue would empower the board and management look to the future with confidence despite the current harsh operating environment. Similarly, Ikeja Hotel Plc blamed COVID-19 for its loss in a statement recently published on the NSE. Part of the statement read, “The loss after tax of N1.4bn recorded by the group in the third quarter financial statements was due to the continued effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the hospitality sector, and it’s likely to affect declaration of dividend for the Year ended December 31, 2020. “Ikeja Hotel Plc (the Company) is responding to these challenges in order to return the business to profitability.” The firm also announced that it received a letter dated October 15, 2020 from the Lagos State Government, purportedly revoking its right of occupancy on its land situated at Opebi Gorge, Ikeja, Lagos. It said the revocation could impair the assets of the group to the tune of N4.63bn, if the government succeeded. Nonetheless, it vowed to take action. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   