Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja To maximise the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, Nigeria and other countries on the continent must embark on massive industrialisation, the United Nations Development Organisation has said. Nigeria signed the AfCFTA last year. The agreement was to take off on July 1, 2020, but was delayed by the COVID-19 outbreak, which set back negotiations on the protocol for trade in goods, including tariff concessions. UNIDO, African Union, United Nations Economic Commission For Africa, and the African Union Commission called on nations in Africa to intensify their respective industrialisation processes ahead of the take-off of the agreement in January next year. They made the call in Abuja on Wednesday during the commemoration of the 2020 Africa Industrialisation Day. UNIDO’s Regional Representative to ECOWAS and Regional Director, Nigeria Regional Office Hub, Jean Bakole, who read their joint statement, said the AfCFTA would enable participating nations to diversify away from commodity dependency towards increased intra-African trade in manufactured goods. Projections by the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa stated that the AfCFTA would boost intra-African trade by between by $50bn to $70bn in monetary terms. It stated that this would happen with a 40 per cent to 50 per cent increase over the first 20 years of its implementation. Bakole said the structural transformation had the potential to facilitate quicker recoveries of African economies, most of whom were currently undergoing a recession triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. He said, “The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the vulnerabilities of African health systems and economies. The agenda ahead is to transform these vulnerabilities to strength and resilience. “The approach towards developing institutional collaborative linkages aligns with the development agenda of Africa. Among the strategic partners, industrialisation and its contribution to the structural transformation of economies are top priorities of our respective institutional programming activities.” On her part, the Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum, said the role of African countries in the global economy had gone beyond provision of raw materials to other continents. She said the time had come to boost production in order to stimulate growth, adding that with the ratification of the AFCTA by the Federal Government, the ministry and all stakeholders would ensure the smooth implementation of the agreement. Katagim said this would be achieved by ensuring that the manufacturing sector played a leading role in the diversification of the economy away from oil to non-oil.