Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The Oyo State Government disclosed on Monday that it paid a total of N8bn to 3,783 retirees as gratuity under the state’s civil service, judicial service, teaching, non-teaching, as well as the local government service commission and primary school up till October, 2020. The Commissioner for Establishment and Training, Prof. Daud Sangodoyin, and the Chairman, Local Government Service Commission and Local Government Staff Pension Board, Aderemi Ayodele, made the disclosure in separate interviews with journalists in Ibadan on Monday. Sangodoyin said the process of writing to go into retirement and getting issued pension authority certificate as well as being eligible to be paid gratuity was foolproof. He added that 1,304 among the retirees that belonged to the teaching, non-teaching, civil servants and those from the judicial service commission had been paid till October with N3.6bn. “We have paid 1,304 retirees their gratuities from June 2019 to October 2020 and the amount paid is N3.6bn. The beneficiaries are in the categories of teaching, non-teaching, the judicial service commission and the civil servants. “The process is simple, you write that you are retiring and follow the due process till the papers get to the Auditor-General’s office and it gets back to the Ministry of Establishment where the pension authority certificate will be issued to the recipient, then the person is said to be eligible and on queue for his or her gratuity. “There is no need for anybody to approach a middleman to help. It is first come, first served. We have reeled out helpline numbers for anyone that has questions or has seen or heard something against the laid down rules of engagement,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    