Ade Adesomoju andAdeyinka Adedipe The Federal Government’s Independent Investigative Panel on Human Rights Violations by Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police will begin its proceedings with a ceremonial sitting today (Wednesday), The PUNCH can confirm. The Chairman of the 11-man panel, Justice Suleiman Galadima, a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, confirmed this to one of our correspondents on Tuesday. “The panel’s sitting will begin at 10 am on Wednesday at the ceremonial courtroom of the FCT High Court in Maitama, Abuja,” he said. The Secretary to the panel, Mr Hilary Ogbonna, in a separate chat The PUNCH, similarly confirmed the planned Wednesday’s sitting. He said the panel had received about 160 petitions from different parts of country. The panel was, on October 21, 2020, inaugurated by the Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights Commission, Mr Tony Ojukwu, in response to the nationwide #EndSARS protests organised by the youth to press for proscription of SARS, an end to police brutality, and reform of the police. Some soldiers had barely 24 hours earlier, on October 20, 2020, opened fire on some of the peaceful protesters who gathered at the Lekki Tollgate Plaza in Lagos shortly after the state government declared a curfew. The shooting widely condemned by locally and internationally is part of the issues being investigated by the Judicial Panel of Inquiry set up by the Lagos State Government in the wake of the protests. At the inauguration of the IPP by Ojukwu on October 22, 2020, Ojukwu demanded compensation for victims of the Lekki shooting and that soldiers who were behind the attack be brought to justice. He said the NHRC would be part of the state panels of inquiry and would monitor their proceedings “with a view to standardising the proceedings and harmonising reports of all the panels at state and federal levels and submitting report with recommendations to the Federal Government for action”. He said the panel would have six months to turn in its report just like the state panels of inquiry established to probe into the activities of SARS as directed by the National Executive Council. The #EndSARS protests brought pressure on the government to implement the report of the previous Presidential Panel on SARS submitted to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), on June 3, 2020. Ojukwu who gave a breakdown of the summary of the report of the previous panel, said 35 SARS operatives were recommended for dismissal, 33 for prosecution, and 23 for reduction in rank. He said the panel recommended further investigation of 26 operatives and the arrest as well as prosecution of two others. He also said the panel recommended the obedience to court orders in four cases. He added that 57 victims were recommended for award a total of about N250m in monetary compensation while 35 for public apology to be issued by the Nigeria police. Edo panel receives nine petitions Also, the Edo Judicial Panel of Enquiry on Police Brutality  had received nine petitions. The Secretary of the panel,  Joyce Ugbodaga, who disclosed this to journalists on Tuesday, also said that more petitions might be submitted before  the start of deliberation on Thursday. On her part, the Chairman of the 20-man panel, Justice Ada Ehigiamusoe (retd), in an interview with journalists on Tuesday,  advised victims to come forward with their petitions and concrete evidences with verifiable phone numbers and addresses. She also urged members of the public not to make false claims their attempt to get justice. She assured them that the panel would do its job dispassionately without fear or favour. Shee appealed for peace and understanding, noting that without tranquillity noting could be achieved. “Physical submission of petitions or oral lodging of complaints shall be at the civic centre between Block C and Block D, new secretariat complex opposite EFCC office, Benin City, Edo State every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday “The panel would perform its duty under the terms of reference which include to receive and investigate complaints of brutality by security agents, human rights violation or related extra judicial killings in Edo State. “The panel would also recommend measures of compensation, as well as suggest to Edo State Government on how to ensure that security agents no longer abuse the rights of citizens. We are also charged to ascertain the officers responsible for the abuse of victims, and recommend their prosecution were applicable. Also, on Tuesday,  state chapters  of the Nigerian Bar Association and the International Federation of Women Lawyers promised to render free  services to victims of police brutality in the state. The state NBA Chairman, Pius Oiwoh, in an interview with journalists, said the decision was in line with a directive of  the National  President of the association, Mr Olumide Akpata. The spokesperson for the FDA, Florence Okundaye, disclosed the decision  of the association to journalists. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      