Patrick Odey, Uyo Fear has gripped residents of Umoh Obot Street, off Nto Akpan Inyang in the Ikot-Ikpene Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State following the alleged gruesome murder of one Eka Ime by her daughter, Mary Imewe, on Friday. It was gathered that the suspect murdered her mother and dismembered her before she was apprehended. A source told our correspondent in Uyo on Sunday that angry youths of the community, who were irked by the bizarre manner in which Ime allegedly murdered her mother, compelled her to pack the body parts into a basin and walked round the community. According to the source, who pleaded anonymity, when the police came to arrest Ime, she stated that she did not care about her arrest and detention. “I don’t care if I am arrested and detained by the police,” the suspect was quoted to have said before being bundled into a waiting police van. The command’s Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, who confirmed the incident, told our correspondent on Sunday that he was surprised that a daughter could commit such a dastardly act against her mother He said no right-thinking person would slaughter their mother in such a gruesome manner, adding that the police would conduct a test to ascertain Ime’s state of mind before she would be charged. Macdon stated, “The story is true; she (Ime) butchered her mum. We are suspecting that she is not of a sound mind, but we do not have any medical capacity yet to say so. “Medical personnel will have to determine if she is of a sound mind or not, because no right-thinking person will kill her mother by butchering her. “As we speak, we have her in our custody. We have gathered the parts of her mother and deposited them in the mortuary. By the time we ascertain her state of mind, we will charge her accordingly. The test will determine the extent of her culpability in the crime.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 