Oladimeji Ramon, Peter Dada and Raphael Ede The Serving Overseer, Citadel Global Community Church, formerly known as Latter Rain Assembly, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has described the clampdown on the promoters of the #EndSARS protests by the Federal Government as a sign of regression in the country. The cleric, who is also the convener of Save Nigeria Group, said the freezing of accounts of the protest promoters, as well as the use of court probes, were intimidation against influencers who backed the protest. Bakare argued that the clampdown on the youth was contradictory to the earlier olive branch extended to the protesters by the government, such as the scrapping of the police Special Anti-Robbery Squad, setting up of N75bn Nigeria Youth Investment Fund and the appointment of some of the protesting youths onto panels of judicial inquiry to address police brutality. Bakare said this on Sunday in a state of the nation address titled, ‘The Youth of a Nation are the Trustees of Posterity,’ which he delivered during the Sunday service in his church in the Oregun area of Lagos. He said, “Truth be told, this season of our national life requires deep humility, sobriety and deliberate thinking through, both by the government and the governed, in order to ensure that our plans, policies and actions are weighed before they are implemented to avert the re-occurrence of our most recent crisis. In light of the foregoing, some of the actions recently taken by the government on the heels of the #EndSARS protests may need to be reversed sooner rather than later in our collective best interest so that they do not trigger further protests. “Among such policy actions is the freezing of the accounts of young Nigerians who reportedly sponsored the protests. While I admit that, under our extant laws, banks may freeze an account upon an ex parte order granted to a law enforcement agency by a court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of investigation, these provisions of our law should not be used to intimidate Nigerian youths simply because they engaged in and promoted protests against the inactions of government. In addition, targeting and arresting citizens on trumped-up charges, deploying court probes as a tool of intimidation, and generally eroding our fragile peace, are deeply worrisome signs of regression.” Warning the government against the planned regulation of the social media to silence the people, Bakare said anyone who sought political relevance in the country should not move against the youth, who possessed power of the social media. He said, “Any political group that takes the social media-savvy Nigerian youths for granted does so at its own risk or peril. This is why I strongly advise the power blocs, including the South-West governors who are calling for stricter regulation of social media, to desist from doing so.” Don’t trivialise youths’ demands, says  CAN Meanwhile, the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria Rev. Samson  Ayokunle, has advised the Federal Government to listen to the agitation  of the youth inthe country. Ayokunle spoke on Saturday at the consecration of Rev. James Owoyemi as the President of the United Apostolic Church of Christ Worldwide in Akure, Ondo State. Ayokunle said, “The government should trivialise the voice of the youth but to ensure and work assiduously and make concrete plans for them in the developmental programme of the country, especially in creating an enabling environment for employment for the youths. “I also want to advise the youth to be patient because Rome was not built in a day. They also need to allow the government to have space to rejig things and make plans for them.” In the same vein, CAN National Vice President, Dr Joseph Alima, in Enugu State on Sunday warned the Federal Government against clampdown on End SARS promoters. Alima, who gave this warning while inaugurating the new CAN executives in the state, said seizing passports and freezing of accounts of the alleged promoters of the protests, was a recipe for another crisis. He said, “Government can freeze people’s accounts, lock and shoot people, but that can’t be the solution.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 