Abiodun Nejo and Daud Olatunji An Ekiti State High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti has sentenced two men to death for conspiracy and armed robbery. The court found the accused – Oke Olanrewaju (39) and Olanbiwonnu Kazeem (27) – guilty of the charge of armed robbery preferred against them by the police. Justice Lekan Ogunmoye, in his ruling, said, “The court found both men guilty of the offence of armed robbery. You are hereby sentenced to death by hanging. May God have mercy on your souls.” During the trial, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Mr Julius Ajibare, told the court that the two men, “on or about July 20, 2016, at No. 2, Ameen Close 4, Federal Housing Estate, Oke-Ila, Ado-Ekiti, conspired to commit felony, to wit: armed robbery.” Ajibare also said the two convicts, on the same day “robbed one Alhaji Ameen Rasheed of his belongings, including phones”. The DPP added that the two men dispossessed one Olaoti Abiodun of his phones and money. The offences, according to the DPP, are contrary to sections 516 and 402(2) of the Criminal Code Law, Cap. C16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. While Ajibare called three witnesses, counsel for the defendants, Mr Chris Omokhafe, called four witnesses. In a related development, an Abeokuta High Court in Ogun State on Monday sentenced a 36-year-old man, Jelili Agemo, to death by hanging for armed robbery and unlawful possession of firearms. Agemo was convicted on three counts of conspiracy, armed robbery and unlawful possession of firearms. Justice Abiodun Akinyemi, in his judgement, said the court was convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the convict was guilty as charged. Akinyemi submitted that the evidence presented by the prosecution was tenable, adding that the punishment for the offence was death. He, however, sentenced the convict to death by hanging for robbery and 10 years’ imprisonment for unlawful possession of firearms. The judge said, “Having found the defendant guilty as charged, you shall be hanged by your neck until you are dead, may the Lord have mercy on you.” Earlier, the prosecution counsel, Mrs Olajumoke Ogunbode, told the court that the convict committed the offence on October 10 and 14, 2009, on Majekembo Street, Quarry Road in Abeokuta. Ogunbode said the convict conspired with others, now at large, and robbed six persons of their valuables. She said the convict, while armed with weapons, entered into the house of some residents, including Mrs Adeile Kemi, Mrs Adegbe Grace, Dr O.O. Dipeolu, Mrs Olakunle Olubukola, Seun Adelano and Osho Mercy, and robbed them of their phones, laptops, jewellery, money, among others. She explained that the convict was arrested with three guns and 18 cartridges. According to the counsel, the offences contravene sections 16(b) and 1(2) (A) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act, Cap. ROI, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     