Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government in collaboration with the Nigeria Association of Engineering Craftsmen have elevated and inducted a total of 334 artisans to the level of qualified craftsmen. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who inducted the 334 persons in Abuja, said the move would curb quackery in the engineering and building construction sectors. Fashola said the Federal Government recently approved the Public Building Maintenance Policy to create opportunities for artisans in the built environment. He said by inducting the artisans as craftsmen, their performances were expected to be enhanced. The minister, who was represented by the Director, Engineering Services, FMWH, Julius Olunuola, said, “It is therefore my honour and pleasure to induct the 334 artisans into the craftsmanship cadre. “I do believe that you will live up to the expectations of your new designation by ensuring quality job delivery that will create the desired impact nationwide. “This is especially in ensuring value for money in engineering projects and adherence to professionalism in order to reduce quackery and corrupt practices in engineering works.” It was learnt that the 334 inductees were members of the Builders Construction and Skilled Artisan Association of Nigeria. On his part, the National President, NAEC, Tanko Gyang, said the induction of qualified craftsmen would to curb the influx of foreign artisans into Nigeria. Gyang stated that the association would continue to train and retrain indigenous artisans to become qualified craftsmen, adding that this would help in reducing capital flight in the construction sector. The NAEC president also stated that the new inductees would support the association in stalling quackery in the profession, as this would significantly reduce cases of building collapse and other inefficiencies in the sector. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  