Friday Olokor, Olufemi Olaniyi, Peter Dada, Wale Oyewale, Bola Bamigbola and Abiodun Nejo The Yoruba sociocultural organisation, Afenifere, on Friday, condemned the killing of a first-class traditional ruler in Ondo State, the Olufon of Ifon, Oba Israel Adeusi, while calling on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to secure the country. The monarch was said to have been kidnapped before he was brutally murdered by the assailants. This is just as the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar Sa’ad, called on traditional rulers in the country to always sensitise political leaders on the need to ensure effective security nationwide. The Sultan spoke in Ibadan on Friday at the fifth coronation anniversary lecture of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, where the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, also decried the spate of insecurity in the country. Meanwhile, Afenifere, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin, titled ‘Olufon’s murder and total insecurity,’ called on Buhari and the governors to “get up and secure Nigeria.” The group said, “This gruesome murder is coming as we are still recovering from the brutal murder of the daughter of Afenifere leader, Funke Olakunrin, for which some Fulani herdsmen are currently on trial. “There have been other multiple murders across Yoruba land, which the police have not been able to resolve. It has reached a point that only very prominent killings get reported in this state of total insecurity in a failed state. The killing of any citizen worries us, how much more a first-class monarch. “We ask the police to fish out the killers of Olufon. To President Buhari, it’s a time to get up and secure Nigeria and allow a federal architecture that promotes homeland security. Being the Commander-in-Chief can’t be a title with no responsibility. Why are we constructing roads to Niger Republic, when our own roads are literally death traps?” The Sultan, who had said during the week that the North was the worst place to live in the country, said, “As traditional and religious leaders, we must continue to sensitise our political leaders to do what is right in protecting the citizenry. We call on all of us to close ranks and not allow the vanity of this world to divide us.” Also, the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, in an interview with one of our correspondents through his media aide, Mr Adebola Oloko, said the murder of the Olufon was a wake-up call to the authorities to ensure security of lives and property. Meanwhile, traditional rulers in Ekiti State, on Friday, described the killing of Adeusi as a bad omen, which was indicative of the state of insecurity of traditional rulers across the country and particularly the South-West. A former chairman of the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers and the Owa Ooye of Okemesi Ekiti, Oba Gbadebo Adedeji, who described the incident as “a very dangerous one,” called on the government “to do more in terms of security, not only for obas but for the entire citizenry.” Adedeji said, “One of the things we touched on was that obas are no longer safe. If the ordinary people are not safe, then the obas too are not safe. The situation is very bad. It is not only the obas.” The Eleda of Eda Oniyo, Oba Julius Awolola, added that the government “is not doing well with traditional rulers in the area of security.” Also speaking, the Olohan of Erijinyan Ekiti, Dr Omoseebi Adegoroye, said the situation was a reminder that “we should go back to our root, that is, our culture and tradition should be put in place. That is the way forward.” In Ondo State, stakeholders called on the government to be more proactive in protecting the lives and property of citizens of the state, particularly traditional rulers. The Olowa of Igbara-Oke, Oba Francis Agbede, condemned the killing of Oba Adeusi, appealing to the government to do everything possible to protect traditional rulers and all residents of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer of the Ondo State Police Command, Tee-Leo Ikoro, said the command was making efforts to keep the state safe, saying many of the monarchs had policemen attached to them. Also in Oyo State, the Soun of Ogbomosoland, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi, in an interview with one of our correspondents, through his private secretary, Mr Toyin Ajamu, called for improved security everywhere in the country, saying every life is important to God and the government. The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, said both traditional and police investigations should be used to serve as a deterrent to the culprits. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 