Temiloluwa O’Peters To mitigate societal challenges, chemical engineers have been advised to focus more on industry-specific projects and solutions that could benefit the people, and help to grow the economy. The former senior official of the Raw Materials, Research and Development Council, Dr Daniel Ayo, led the call during the yearly public lecture and 80th birthday of emeritus professor of chemical engineering, Alfred Susu. The programme organised by the Nigerian Society of Chemical Engineers, Lagos/Ogun Chapter, celebrated Susu, a foremost chemical engineer and pioneer of the chemical engineering department of the University of Lagos. Ayo explained that if projects were industry-specific, students would be able to relate with them, and that would promote stronger relationships among the industry, the academy, government and the private sector. With abundance of coconut, water, and fish in Lagos, he stated that universities, polytechnics, and other institutions within the state should try and direct their projects towards what the industries around them need, so that they could get funding support. He said, “The society needs more focus on demand-driven research. If you sit down in your office, and come up with an idea on how to convert gold to water, it is fantastic research but does the society need that now? “But if your research focuses on how to convert water to gold, that is the immediate needs of the society.” Ayo also emphasised that practitioners should explore the vast opportunities that chemical engineering offered especially in areas such as, nanotechnology, agriculture, biochemistry, medicine and others to create jobs instead of waiting for opportunities in the oil and gas sector. He advised upcoming engineers to emulate Susu by working hard and preparing to sacrifice as the field was very demanding. President of the Nigeria Academy of Engineering and chairman of the occasion, Alex Ogedengbe, also urged upcoming engineers to emulate Susu’s devotion to the teaching profession and contributions to the chemical and petroleum industry in Nigeria. In a remark, the Chairman, Lagos/Ogun Chapter of NSChE, Dr Kamilu Oyedeko, noted that Susu’s worthy contributions to the development of chemical engineering in Nigeria deserved commendation and celebration. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 