WorldRemit, a global digital money transfer service, has announced the launch of Entrepreneurs Programme in Nigeria, as well as in Kenya, Ghana, and Zimbabwe. The firm also named Patrick Okorie, popularly known as Patoranking, as the programme’s brand ambassador. According to a statement from the firm, since the outbreak of COVID-19 across Africa, the continent has experienced a significant setback with the businesses of many entrepreneurs taking a hit. The company noted that entrepreneurs control the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises landscape that had made significant contributions to the growth of the African economy, especially through the creation of jobs. It said the payment firm was kickstarting the investment to support and empower small businesses to grow. WorldRemit said the programme would commence from November 2020 till the end of January 2021 and would focus on empowering 50 entrepreneurs each, from the four African countries. It added that the beneficiaries would get a business booster pack and a digital business training course to help them develop the required skills to scale up and run their businesses successfully. According to the company, the training module was developed and will be delivered in partnership with the Nest, a pan-African tech incubation hub reaching entrepreneurs from all sectors, domains and industries across the continent. Okorie, as the Entrepreneurship Programme brand ambassador, will promote the partnership with WorldRemit and encourage people to enter the competition which will help to build entrepreneurship across Africa, according to the statement. Speaking on this partnership, the Country Manager, Nigeria and Ghana at WorldRemit, Gbenga Okejimi, said, “Much of what Africa is today is due to its entrepreneurship which is a key driver for socioeconomic progress through significant job creation and innovation. “At WorldRemit, we want to be known for fostering the African entrepreneurship spirit.  We want to be a part of Africa’s future prosperity. By helping build entrepreneurs across our African markets, we are enabling growth and development.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 