Temiloluwa O’Peters The Lagos State Government has assured of a seamless application process for planning permit and other approvals for people in areas where district offices were destroyed. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, gave the assurance while on the ministry’s assessment tour of district offices destroyed by hoodlums following the #EndSARS protests in the state. He expressed shock at the level of destruction in the district offices in Ibeju, Lagos Island and Ajeromi-Ifelodun as well as the Materials Testing Laboratory Headquarters, Ojodu, where the structures, equipment and documents were completely razed. He however noted that concerted efforts were ongoing to ensure people in the affected areas were able to process their planning permit applications easily. According to him, the government has also taken inventory of affected assets and is ramping up efforts to redress the situation. Salako said, “The unfortunate incident is capable of bringing about untold hardship on Lagosians, especially property owners and developers. “However, staff of the ministry must take a cue from the governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who has risen above the crises and communicated hope to Lagosians by declaring that Lagos will rise again.” He added that the state would expedite action on the initiative to strengthen the Lagos State Planning Information Centre for the maintenance of durable planning records. The commissioner urged all to take advantage of the electronic planning permit platform to forward their applications. He was accompanied on the tour by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Urban Development, Ganiyu Ayuba, the Permanent Secretary, Foluso Dipe, as well as heads of some agencies. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 