Ife Ogunfuwa Stakeholders in trade, commerce and investment have warned that failure to support SMEs in this challenging period will lead to loss of jobs, poverty and insecurity. Speaking at the annual seminar of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Small and Medium Enterprises Group, they said small businesses, which were responsible for about 60 per cent of jobs in the country, were facing hardship as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and hoodlum attacks. The Lagos Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Dr Lola Akande, said Lagos State with over 11,000 SMEs and 3,000,000 micro enterprises, had been the hardest hit by the pandemic as it had been at the epi-centre of the outbreak in Nigeria. In view of this, she said the Lagos State Government had had been proactive in ensuring that these ventures stayed in business after the pandemic. The commissioner said, “Failure to bolster these vulnerable SMEs with necessary tools to overcome this new normal will lead to loss of employment, a reduction in the spending power of the average citizen and ultimately, an exponential increase in poverty and insecurity. According to her, a number of existing schemes have been strengthened, modified and new measures taken by the government since the onset of the crisis. Akande identified three-months’ moratorium granted on loan repayments to current LSETF beneficiaries as one of them. She added that the government reviewed the Land Use Charge, granted three-year waiver on penalties for defaults in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 and offered a 25 per cent discount on early payment of the Land Use Charge. “While government continues to work tirelessly on its own end to cushion the effects of the hard times on businesses, it is also crucial for MSMEs to look inwards not just to survive but to also thrive in this new normal,” Akande said. She advised small business owners to be industrious business men and women, to continue to optimise, adapt and innovate in order to secure their pride of place at the forefront of the new normal. The Chairman, LCCI SME Group, Mr Daniel Dickson-Okezie, said the gathering aimed to share insights from entrepreneurs, financial institutions, regulatory agencies, intervention agencies and other stakeholders within and outside the organised private sector. According to him, the webinar seeks to examine the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on SMEs and how they can be repositioned for growth now and in the future. He noted that Nigerian SMEs played a great role in growing the economy, with about 40 million of them operating in various sectors and employing over 60 per cent of the country’s workforce and providing livelihood for the majority of homes. Dickson-Okezie said SMEs had been battered by declining economic fortunes, poor power supply, poor access to funds, poor infrastructure and the COVID 19 pandemic. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      