ARMSTRONG BAKAM The Bauchi State Police Command has arrested an 18-year-old man, Kabiru Ahmed, for allegedly stabbing another man to death over a girlfriend. The Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Ahmed Wakil, said this in a statement on Friday night. He stated that a good Samaritan reported to the police that the deceased was stabbed in the chest and was rushed to a hospital where he was certified dead. Wakil said, “On November 11, 2020, about 9.45pm, a distress call was received from a good Samaritan that one Hamza Usman (23) of Anguwar Mahaukata, Bauchi went to the house of his girlfriend by the name Ramlat Shehu (not real name), 15, of the same address. He was attacked and stabbed in his chest by one Kabiru Ahmed, 18, of Karofi. “As a result of the bleeding, he was rushed to the hospital for medical examination. There, a doctor certified him dead. On receipt of the information, a team of policemen was drafted to the scene and the principal suspect, Kabiru Ahmed, was arrested.” The PPRO said during investigation, the suspect confessed to the crime and mentioned one Abdul aka Walplay and Waleed aka Bandi, as his accomplices, adding that efforts were ongoing to arrest the fleeing suspects. According to him, the Commissioner of Police directed that the case be transferred to the Special Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. Wakil further stated that a 55-year-old man was arrested by the police for allegedly having anal sex with an eight-year-old boy at the Multi-Purpose Indoor Sports Hall Complex, Bauchi. He said the suspect also forced the victim to lick his sperm during the act. The PPRO stated, “On November 9, 2020 about 9.40am, one Fatima Garba, 40, of Unguwan Shekal, came to the Area Command and reported one Shu’ibu Abdullahi, 55, of Anguwan Dawaki Bauchi. “He reported that some months back, he lured her son, one Sani Umar (not real name), eight, and forcefully had unlawful sexual intercourse with him through his anus at the Multi-Purpose Indoor Sports Hall Complex located opposite Wunti market. “After that, he gave his sperm to the victim to lick. He also said the suspect had molested the victim on several occasions.” Wakil said on receipt of the complaint, policemen visited the scene and arrested the suspect. He added, “During interrogation, the suspect confessed to having committed the crime. Investigation is in progress after which the suspect will be prosecuted.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 