Adebayo Folorunsho-Francis Researchers say they have discovered that in some patients where COVID-19 might have cleared in the respiratory tract, the virus continues to replicate in the gastrointestinal tract and could be shed in faeces. However, the scientists say there are currently no data showing how long the contagion remains viable in faeces. The respiratory tract consists of the nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and the lung with its different compartments; while the gastrointestinal tract comprises the mouth, oesophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, and anus. The liver, pancreas, and gallbladder make up the solid organs of the digestive system.. Study authors, Prof. Lijing Yang and Dr. Lei Tu, say although respiratory tract manifestations are the most commonly reported symptoms of COVID-19, emerging data suggests that the gastrointestinal tract and liver might also be affected by the virus. They said this is because gastrointestinal epithelial cells and liver cells express angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 — the major receptor of SARS-CoV-2. The researchers had cultured four SARS-CoV-2 positive faecal specimens with high copy numbers and detected live virus using electron microscopy detection. The findings imply that in some patients, although SARS-CoV-2 has been cleared in the respiratory tract, the virus continues to replicate in the gastrointestinal tract and could be shed in faeces. The study was titled, ‘Implications of gastrointestinal manifestations of COVID-19,’ and published in peer-reviewed The Lancet journal. Reacting to the study, a Senior Registrar, Gastroenterology and Haematology Unit at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Dr. Cara Cookey, says the gastrointestinal tract is a big organ with many hidden hollow sites that can prevent bacterial infections such as typhoid; or a viral infection like COVID-19, from being detected. Cookey said it was a known fact that the gastrointestinal tract has several nests that hide viruses and bacteria. “It does happen, because the gastrointestinal tract also has a receptor that can be penetrated by COVID-19. “The gastrointestinal tract is a big organ with lots of hidden sites that the virus can hide in. Therefore, clearing the infection may not be fast. “It is not different from typhoid case. There are some people who are regarded as typhoid sharer. If you test them, they don’t have it. But go to their gallbladder, you will see the bacteria there,” she said. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 