Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr Ibrahim Magu, has said some of his documents requested by the Code of Conduct Bureau have been seized by the Department of State Services and the retired Justice Ayo Salami-led Judicial Commission of Inquiry. Magu stated that the DSS removed the documents from his office while he was in detention following his suspension from office to pave the way for his probe by the Salami-led panel. The suspended EFCC boss stated this in his two letters dated November 16 and 17, 2020 sent to the CCB Chairman, Prof. Muhammad Isah, to explain his inability to honour the November 17, 2020 invitation by the bureau. His lawyer, Mr Wahab Shittu, on Sunday quoted portions of the letters in a statement, titled, ‘CCB invitation: Magu lacks access to relevant documents – Lawyer’. He also sought a reschedule of the invitation till when he would have access to his office and the relevant documents. The Salami panel submitted its report to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday. The CCB had invited Magu via a letter with reference number CCB/HQ/II&M/007/2093, dated November 2, 2020. He was asked to appear before the anti-corruption agency on November 17, 2020. Magu was asked to come along with acknowledgment copies of all his asset declaration forms since joining the public service as well as his pay slips and land documents. Shittu, on Sunday, denied that his client shunned the November 17, 2020 invitation by the CCB. He said, “We wish to state that our client did not shun the CCB invitation as the media reportage did not reflect the true position of the narrative. “We wish to state with high sense of responsibility that we have written two letters to the Chairman of the CBB, intimating him about the inability of our client to have access to the relevant documents as required by the CCB.” The letters read in part, “We request that the invitation to our client be extended pending the conclusion of the exercise of the mandate of the presidential Judicial Commission of Inquiry set up against our client and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. “This request has become necessary since most of the documents requested by your bureau were removed from our client’s offices by the Department of State Services and the request of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry in the absence of our client while our client was in detention.” ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 