WITH many European countries and the United States currently taking a whole raft of new measures to contain the devastating effects of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, health authorities at all levels in Nigeria and Nigerians in general should brace themselves; this scourge is far from over and the government alone cannot stop the second wave. To do that, citizens must absorb the lessons of the first wave. Worryingly, too many have not. Elsewhere, the stories are scary. France, for instance, has returned to lockdown mode, after the earlier one in March, following a recent upsurge in cases with people required to obtain permits before leaving their homes. The country reported 47,637 new daily cases and 235 COVID-19-related deaths as of October 30. The government, expecting a contraction in the GDP of 11 per cent in 2020, issued stricter hygiene rules for schools, where they must keep classes small-sized and enforce the use of facemasks for schoolchildren from the age of six, among other measures. A fine of €135 is imposed for violation of the rules. In the United Kingdom, experts warn that England could see COVID-19 deaths above levels seen during the first wave peak by mid-December if no action is taken. Prime Minister Boris Johnson imposed a nationwide lockdown from November 5 without which “the number of COVID-19 deaths would be twice as high as the first wave.” The BBC reported that Poland had 21,629 new cases and 202 confirmed deaths on October 29, a record so far for the Eastern European country. Russian infections surged to a record 18,283, with 355 new deaths. Almost all of Austria had turned red on its four-level at-risk traffic light system, meaning outbreaks were “out of control” and the virus “widespread.” No African country has the capacity to deal with a second wave of coronavirus, given the devastation of their economies in the first wave. The World Bank said the pandemic precipitated the “worst financial state” Nigeria had seen in four decades, with the National Bureau of Statistics stating that 42 per cent of almost 2,000 citizens interviewed were forced out of work. Understandably, the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, is agitated that the second wave being experienced in Europe and America should give the country concern because of the high volume of human traffic between Nigeria and those continents, reopening of schools and “serious disruptions” in response caused by the recent #EndSARS protests across the country. “I fear that with the laxity displayed by our own population, our own second wave is imminent,” he said. This should be a call to duty rather than an expression of resignation by an overwhelmed official. With contact sports like football given approval to start and the National Youth Service Corps set to resume camping this month, a more coordinated front is required now more than ever before to confront the new challenges. The World Health Organisation’s report in October indicated an increase in COVID-19 cases and deaths in Africa, with an 11 per cent increase in new cases and eight per cent of deaths. Nigeria ranked seventh among countries with the highest burden of COVID-19 with 61,558 cases and 1,125 deaths. As of November 3, the figures had surged to 63,173 infections and 1,151 deaths, with 1,478 new cases occurring between October 20 and November 2. The urgency and imperative of halting this spread cannot be overemphasised. The President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), acknowledges that the economy cannot withstand another shutdown. This is painfully obvious. “Looking at the trends in the other countries, we must do all we can to avert a second wave of COVID-19 in Nigeria,” he said. “We must make sure that our cases, which have gone down, do not rise again. Our economy is too fragile to bear another round of lockdown.” Now that the figures are surging, the President should lead the charge from the front like his counterparts in other parts of the world. There is an urgent need for a national response to be guided by the admonition of a virologist, Oyewale Tomori, “Yes, we are not seeing the European situation here, but let us not deceive ourselves about the drop in the number of positives, it is a reflection of a significant drop in the number of tests performed. The epidemiology of the COVID-19 disease in Europe differs from that of Africa. So, we have to use different approaches.” The World Economic Forum observed, “As coronavirus spreads, so does the sobering reality that epidemics will become more common with our increasingly connected age. In our global society, outbreaks of infectious disease can move from a remote village to a major city on the other side of the world in under 36 hours. Understanding this new reality will be key to reducing the risk of future epidemics.” This is scary. Nigeria needs to revive its comatose primary healthcare system, which has for long suffered neglect from poor funding, to rein in the debilitating epidemics. It is more effective to spend more money on preventive medicine than curative medicine. Nigeria can adapt some workable measures applied elsewhere. Targeted testing, where they are focused on high-risk individuals and on buildings and neighbourhoods where there have been confirmed cases, is one tactic that partly explains Vietnam’s extremely low infection figure of just 1,113 for a population of nearly 100 million. Similarly, for a country with a relatively weak medical system, like Nigeria’s, at just 283 infections and zero deaths, Cambodia presents another worthy example. Research shows it has conducted extensive contact tracing, utilising 2,900 health-care workers who were trained in contact tracing at the start of the year. These are worthy examples to follow to avoid disaster. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   