Grace Edema The National Examination Council has said it was not aware that students of some schools could not sit for few subjects due to the #EndSARS protests. It added that the affected schools in Lagos and other state did not notify the council of such development. However, the NECO, Lagos office said there would be announcement on the subjects. The PUNCH gathered that during the #EndSARS protests, subjects including Economics, Commerce and Chemistry practical were not taken in the affected schools. For instance, the proprietor of Abifab College, Ikorodu, Lagos State, Abidemi Faboye, said, “The days we were supposed to have Economics, Chemistry practical and Commerce were between October 20 and 22 when the protests were ongoing. Later, NECO postponed the exam. “When the new time table was released, Economics, Commerce and Chemistry practical were not on the list. We learnt that Economics exam was conducted in Ogun State. “The exam will soon end. NECO office, Lagos, promised that the new dates for the three subjects would be communicated to us, but nobody has heard anything. I think some schools in about four states – Lagos, Edo, Bayelsa and Rivers – were affected.” Similarly, Head of Schools, Dobar Schools, Ikorodu, Mr Durodola Ajani, said, “The dates for the subjects were not on the new timetable. The students have not taken Chemistry practical, Commerce and Economic.” Another school owner, who pleaded not to be named, said students, parents and school owners were worried that no dates had been fixed for the subjects. But, the Head of Public Relations Division,NECO, Azeez Sani, explained that the body was not aware of the development. “It is the responsibility of such schools to get in touch with out state offices. They have to lay a formal complaint. There is nothing like that here in the North. There are papers we rescheduled on our own when we realised there was tension all over; and they were captured in the new timetable. The exam ought to have been completed by now but we extended it till November 28,” he said. However, the Lagos State officer, NECO, Saad Ibrahim, in an interview with The PUNCH,  said, “There will soon be announcement on it from the headquarters. There are a lot of things being done to take care of the development. You will get official statement about it soon.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com       