Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The Code of Conduct Bureau has invited the suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, for questioning. This is according to a letter with reference number CCB/HQ/II&M/007/2093 dated November 2, 2020. According to the document obtained by online medium, Peoples Gazette, Magu is expected to appear before the anti-corruption agency on November 17, 2020. The suspended EFCC boss was asked to come along with acknowledgment copies of all asset declaration forms since joining the public service as well as his payslips and land documents. Magu was also addressed as ‘former chairman’ of the EFCC in the letter even though he had not yet been officially sacked. The letter read in part, “The bureau is investigating a case of alleged breach of Code of Conduct for Public Officers against Mr. Ibrahim Mustapha Magu, the former acting Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. “You are expected to come along with certified true copies of the following documents: Acknowledgment slips of all your asset declarations to Code of Conduct Bureau since you joined the public service. “Copies of your appointment letter, acceptance, records of service, and payslips from January to May 2020. All documents of your landed properties both developed and undeveloped.” Magu was suspended in July based on allegations levelled against him by a panel set up by the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami. He was accused of buying a home in Dubai worth over N570m and being unable to account for the interest accrued to over N500bn recovered by the EFCC but he denied the allegations. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), subsequently set up a panel headed by a former President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Ayo Salami, to look into the allegations. Over 13 senior EFCC officials loyal to Magu, including the EFCC Secretary, Ola Olukoyede, were suspended by the President pending the outcome of the probe. However, the panel has yet to submit its report five months later.