IT is the new normal for Nigeria to feature prominently in the worst global indices. The country has proved it once again when it ranked highest in drug use prevalence rate in the world. Nigeria’s drug problem is truly staggering, and still appears to be growing. The National Programme Officer of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Folusho Adelekan, recently disclosed that Nigeria had a 14.3 per cent prevalence rate, much higher than the global average of 5.3 per cent prevalence rate. She added that available statistics showed there were 14.4 million drug users in Nigeria. Indeed, the prevalence of drug abuse in the country, particularly among youths, has reached an alarming level. Unfortunately, there is nothing to show that government at all levels are taking the scourge of drug abuse seriously and doing anything definite to correct it. The statistics could well explain the stark realities of life for millions of youths staring blankly at a hopeless future occasioned by years of corruption, inept leadership and bad policies. From poor management of the economy to an unprecedented low level of unemployment, the list of inadequacies in the system is endless. Public universities have been closed for about eight months over disagreements between lecturers and the government, spelling disaster when added to the lockdown occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic earlier in the year. Frustration, anger and trauma can result from these environmental and individual circumstances. The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency had predicted in June that lockdown in states affected by COVID-19 could give rise to drug addiction and experimentation with newer concoctions. But like always, no action was taken by the government to deal with the foreseen problem. A recent document comprising data sourced by the National Bureau of Statistics titled, ‘Drug Seizure and Arrest Statistics 2019’ revealed that 612,547.89kg quantity of narcotic drugs was seized in 2019 as against 163,684.44kg seized in 2018, representing an increase of about 274 per cent. According to the document, the North-Central geopolitical zone recorded the worst scenario with 517,711.69kg recorded, while the South-West and South-South zones followed with 44,744.13kg and 28,885.85kg recorded respectively. The North-East region recorded the least with 4,490.81kg of drugs in 2019. Some equally disturbing statistics released by the UNODC in a document titled, ‘Drug Use in Nigeria 2018’, said one in seven persons aged 15-64 years had used a drug (other than tobacco and alcohol) in the past year, which was the highest level of any past-year drug use were among those aged 25-39 years. “Cannabis is the most commonly used drug. An estimated 10.8 per cent of the population or 10.6 million people had used cannabis in the past year. The average age of initiation of cannabis use among the general population was 19 years,” it added. More worrisome to social workers, it noted, “Among every four drug users in Nigeria, one is a woman.” Apart from cannabis, some other commonly used drugs are opioids, cough syrup, tranquilisers and sedatives, ecstasy, solvents and inhalants, amphetamines and prescription stimulants, and cocaine. Meanwhile, the far-reaching implications of drug use on society go beyond the harm it causes to users to include the likelihood of an increased burden of mental health problems, its attendant pressure on health facilities and rising HIV infections through the sharing of needles. Nigerian leaders need to understand that there is a close relationship between drug abuse and crime. Drug abusers have been known to commit crimes to sustain their habit, and many criminals have been known to commit crimes while under the influence of drugs. A research in the United States in 2010 found that 70 per cent of male prisoners were drug abusers, which was considered significant compared to the 11.2 per cent rate of drug abuse in the entire male population. According to reports, among individuals who were arrested in Australia in 2004, 82 per cent had a history of drug abuse, 69 per cent had abused drugs at least six months before their arrest and 62 per cent frequently abused drugs. Sadly, Nigeria has moved from just being a drug-transit nation to one known for illicit drug trafficking, where it is largely consumed and abused. Experts say the preponderant increases in illicit drugs activities in Nigeria is a veritable tool for terrorism financing, corruption inducement, political instability. Moreover, it undermines economic development. Similarly, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, whose state has been ravaged by criminal activities, recently blamed the wave of banditry, thuggery and terrorist activities by Boko Haram on drug abuse. Drug addiction is a complex disease, and quitting usually takes more than good intentions or a strong will. The scourge has reached an epidemic level in the country, especially among the youth. Part of the overall plan should focus on strategies to help victims of drug addiction survive and recover — and to help prevent new victims. The UNODC says drug prevention or “drug abuse prevention” has three main components: Demand reduction strategies, supply reduction strategies and strategies to mitigate the negative health and social consequences of drug use. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), should come up with a scientific approach in addressing the menace. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com