Friday Olokor, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission on Monday confirmed the resignation of a National Commissioner, Abubakar Nahuche. His resignation came barely a few minutes after the INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, handed over to Air Vice Marshall Ahmed Mu’azu (retd.), to oversee the affairs of the commission pending the confirmation of his reappointment by the senate. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman (Information and Voter Education Committee), Festus Okoye, confirmed the resignation in a message. READ ALSO: IPOB working to instigate another civil war – Umahi He said, “INEC National Commissioner and chairman, Estate, Works and Transport Committee, representing North-West, Abubakar Nahuche, resigned his appointment on personal reasons and the President has accepted his resignation and thanked him for his services to the nation.” The PUNCH learnt that five National Commissioners also retired during the handover ceremony held at the Conference Rome at INEC Headquarters, Abuja. They are Hajiya Amina Zakari, Prof. Antonia Taiye Okoosi-Simbine, Alhaji Baba Shettima Arfo, Dr. Mohammed Mustafa Lecky, and Prince Adedeji Solomon Soyebi. Meanwhile, a new Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Chukwuemeka Chukwu, representing Abia State was appointed at the event. Until his appointment, the REC now deployed to Ebonyi State, was a lecturer at the University of Nigerian, Nsukka. Since the onset of the presidential system of government 41 years ago in 1979, Nigeria has had nine chairmen of the electoral umpire under different names, including the Federal Electoral Commission popularly known as FEDECO; National Electoral Commission; National Electoral Commission of Nigeria and INEC in succession. The chairmen were Michael Ani; Victor Ovie-Whiskey; Eme Awa; Humphrey Nwosu; Ephraim Akpata; Abel Guobadia; Maurice Iwu; Attahiru Jega, and now Mahmood Yakubu. During his brief response, AVM Mu’azu said he has accepted the responsibility reposed on him and would discharge his duties with due diligence.