‘Femi Asu The Nigeria private sector experienced a positive start to the final quarter of 2020 with output and new orders both rising at a robust and accelerated pace, according to Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc’s Purchasing Managers’ Index report. The report said firms continued to expand purchasing activity and employment in line with higher levels of new work, adding that sufficient capacity and higher staffing numbers led to another decline in the level of incomplete work. It said companies remained optimistic about output in the year ahead, with many firms hoping to expand operations. “On the price front, input costs rose, with higher wage and material costs linked to the latest uptick. Cost burdens were passed on to customers which led to a robust rise in selling prices,” it said. According to the report, the headline PMI registered at 53.5 in October, up from 52.5 in September, signalling a solid expansion in business activity at Nigerian private sector firms. It said higher customer numbers and easing restrictions associated with COVID- 19 were widely reported by panelists, helping lead to stronger growth of both output and new orders. “In both cases, continuous expansion has been recorded for four consecutive months,” the report said. It said employment continued to rise modestly, with the rate of job creation in line with that seen in the previous survey period. The report said efforts to keep on top of workloads were largely successful as outstanding business decreased at one of the fastest rates since the start of the survey almost seven years ago. It said, “Purchasing activity also rose sharply in line with higher output levels, contributing to a substantial accumulation of inventories. “Despite rising demand for inputs and political unrest, competition among suppliers and prompt payments meant delivery times shortened to the greatest extent in 30 months. “The rate of purchase cost inflation slowed slightly from the previous survey period but remained solid overall. Respondents often linked the latest rise to unfavourable exchange rate conditions and rising raw material prices.” The report, however, said staff costs increased modestly, adding that firms reportedly passed on higher costs to customers, resulting in an accelerated rise in selling prices. It said, “Looking ahead, businesses continue to foresee a rise in output levels over the year ahead with plans to expand operations and implement marketing strategies. “That said, sentiment was below the series average as a number of firms mentioned uncertainty surrounding COVID-19 developments.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 