Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa Former President Goodluck Jonathan has advocated the adoption of electronic voting system by Nigeria to eliminate electoral malpractices and violence. The Bayelsa State Governor, Mr Douye Diri, represented by his deputy, Mr Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, also supported electronic voting. Jonathan and Diri berated politicians who promote and deploy thuggery and cultism as a means of winning election in the country, stressing that electronic voting would save the nation from election-related injuries. Jonathan and Diri spoke during the third Synod of the Anglican Diocese of Ogbia at St. Mark’s Anglican Church, Otakeme, in the Ogbia Local Government Area of the state. The former president blamed the rising insecurity in the country on the activities of politicians who were hell-bent on grabbing political power through the back door. Jonathan said, “Our political activities, particularly the use of young people as militiamen and thugs and so on to win elections, have increased the security challenges facing our nation. READ ALSO: IPOB working to instigate another civil war – Umahi “Some of the youths they use are so protected that even the police cannot arrest them because they are ‘boys’ to powerful politicians who use them during elections. “That is why I’ve always advocated that for us to move forward as a country; we must use electronic voting where nobody will use thugs to win elections. Immediately we use electronic voting, the issues of thuggery and cultism will drop by at least 50 per cent.” Diri urged youths to shun politicians who only use them to achieve their selfish political ambitions and abandon them afterwards. He said, “Just like our father (Jonathan) said earlier, I want to encourage our youths to resist evil politicians who do not mean well for them. If they invite you to carry guns, ask them, where are your children? You must learn to love yourself above any politician. “The man who teaches you how to fish is better than the one who gives you fish. To be taking fish from a politician everyday is to be dependent. To be a fisherman is to be independent. And to be independent is the glory and desire of every reasonable man. “For us as a government, we are determined to improve the lives of our people. And our focus is to see how prosperity can be engendered. Prosperity is not engendered by coming to beg a politician to give you something to eat.” The President of the Synod and Bishop of Ogbia Diocese, Rt. Rev. James Aye-Oruwori, cautioned the Federal Government against the use of the Companies and other Allied Matters Act 2020 to undermine the sacred place of the church in society. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 