Joseph Olaoluwa and DAUD OLATUNJI The Federal Government, Julius Berger and Reynolds Construction Company  have accused truck drivers of negatively impacting the progress of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The contractors of the project, Messrs Julius Berger and Reynolds Construction Company, accused truck drivers situated at Ogere for damaging some completed sections of the road. The Managing Director, Julius Berger, Lavs Richter, at an inspection tour on Saturday, explained that the workers experienced a series of congestion from truck on the road. Richter said, “We encounter bottlenecks of congestion due to broken down vehicles, road traffic accidents. This leads to a reduction in our response time among established communication lines among various agencies.” The contractor responsible for the Lagos-Shagamu section of the road said it had to work with traffic agencies like the Federal Road Safety Corps and the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency to curb the congestion caused by the narrow carriageway. Managing Director, RCC, Nabeel Esawi, specifically raised the alarm over truck drivers slowing construction work by damaging the modernised bitumen used on the road. He said, “As mentioned by the MD of Julius Berger, we have more than 40,000 vehicles plying this road daily. These 40,000 vehicles involve trucks. “What is important is the loads that they carry. We have noticed 8,600 passengers passing here every day and we have 17,000 large vehicles. More than 50 per cent of the vehicles that ply this road are heavy-duty trucks. “I want to bring your attention to the main challenge in Ogere trailer park. All trailers violate the rule by parking along the newly laid asphalt. We are also doing repairs along the asphalt but diesel and oil is rubbing into the asphalt and it is dying. “We need a solution to it. This parking is causing a lot of traffic to the road that is newly done and slowing work progress.” Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State also lamented the heavy traffic at Ogere. Abiodun said, “In the last two to three weeks, the Shagamu-Ogere road has been a nightmare. In fact, I have had to come out of my car to control traffic at a point.” While charging the sector commander of the FRSC to do his work, he narrated how he spent four hours getting home, saying he set up a task force to that effect. The governor expressed the desire of the state government to rehabilitate the park, hoping to have a sequencing pattern for trucks, as he urged contractors to hasten work on the road. Responding, Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said he was trying to ensure that critical projects which had antagonised Nigerians for a long time were completed. Fashola stated that the Abuja-Kano road started as a N155bn project but that substantial variations had happened. He added that the Lagos-Ibadan road cost N311bn at present, while the Second Niger Bridge also cost N414bn. The minister praised the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), for trying to complete the road amidst the ailing economy. He said, “All this is happening when the price of oil has gone to $40. Even if oil drops to zero, he (Buhari) will do his best to complete this project. That is why we have this strategic engagement with Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority to raise investment, so the critical projects are finished. “The roads are strategic connections for Nigeria. Abuja-Kano connects North Central Nigeria. The second Niger Bridge connects the East and West. Lagos-Ibadan is a link to the ports and borders. “This is the road that carries our petrol; it carries containers from the port outside Lagos. It also brings vegetables, food, cattle from the North to Mile 12 market, and Abattoir in Agege. If the roads are not done, the prosperity of Nigerians will be affected. While we are building this road, the travel time will improve every time.” On the duration of construction, Fashola stated that the road was first awarded in April 1974 and finished four years after. He called for patience amongst road users. The minister also directed truckers to stop disrupting road construction with diesel spills on the asphalt. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 