Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Monday accused his predecessor, Mr Ayodele Fayose, of placing politics above the interests of Ekiti people. This, he said, was responsible for Fayose’s decision to abandon the Local Council Development Areas which his administration created in 2014. Fayemi, who noted that the agitation for creation of LCDAs was always topmost among the people’s demands, said, his administration’s response to it was a “demonstration of commitment to justice, fair-play and response to the yearning of the people for increase and adequate representation at all levels of governance.” The governor spoke in Ado Ekiti, while inaugurating a 13-member LCDA creation committee headed by Mr. Segun Oluwole, to kickstart the process of creating new LCDAs from the 16 existing council areas of the state. He said that the Committee on the Creation of LCDAs, chaired by Justice Akinjide Ajakaiye, in 2014, adopted a consultative and inclusive approach to its mandate and presented to government a report that led to the creation of additional 19 LCDAs from the existing 16 council areas in the state. The governor said, “Regrettably, the successor government placed politics above the far-reaching interest of Ekiti people. The process was abandoned just like it did to many of the developmental policies, programmes and projects of my first term.” Fayemi, further said, LCDAs creation was “response to the agitation of our people for enhanced representation at all levels of government.” He charged the committee to be impartial in discharging its responsibility. It was given three months within which to submit a report. But the media aide to Fayose, Lere Olayinka, said, “We don’t want to join any issue with him (Fayemi). It is not necessary.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   