Adebayo Folorunsho-Francis The Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, has given reasons for the disengagement of frontline volunteers who worked at some facilities where COVID-19 patients were being treated. He said the workers’ disengagement was a routine practice. Omotoso spoke in response to the disengaged workers’ allegation about non-payment of their two-month allowances. The healthcare providers said they were frontline workers engaged by the Coalition Against COVID-19 to treat patients,in partnership with the Lagos State Government. They said they were still being owed by the Lagos State government. The workers comprised volunteer nurses, doctors and pharmacists working at the Lagos State isolation centre in Mainland Hospital, Yaba. They alleged the non-payment of their two-month COVID-19 allowances for the months of August and September. When our correspondent visited the Mainland Hospital, Yaba, on Monday, he was told the volunteers had been disengaged. One of the doctors, Tunde, who pleaded that his other names be withheld, confirmed the development to our correspondent on phone. “They have dropped all volunteers who joined from the private sector. “After the PUNCH HealthWise story about our unpaid arrears, we were informed that we will be paid two months’ allowances. That also included those who worked for three months. “I got an alert of N400,000 on the evening of November 6, which came as a surprise because our allowance for a month ought to be N700,000. “So, I expected twice that amount, going by the Lagos State Government’s promise to defray the two-month allowances,” Dr. Tunde said. The physician also said thestate government had shut down isolation centres that were considered inactive. “The only functional isolation centre working at optimal levelis the Infectious Diseases Hospital at Yaba, followed by a section of LASUTH, another section in a federal teaching hospital, First Cardiology Consultants and two private ones used by the elite,” he said. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 