Oladimeji Ramon The family of a policeman, Inspector Ayodeji Erinfolami, who was shot in the stomach on October 12 in the Surulere area of Lagos State during the #EndSARS protest, has written a pre-action letter to the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, demanding the prosecution of the fellow policemen who shot Erinfolami, as well as N400m compensation. The family made the demands in an October 28, 2020 pre-action letter written on their behalf by a human rights lawyer, Mr Jiti Ogunye. Ogunye noted that the 38-year-old police Inspector, who was attached to the Anti-Cultism and Kidnapping Unit of the Lagos State Police Command, had put in 18 years of service before he was gruesomely killed by his fellow policemen trying to disperse unarmed #EndSARS protesters, who had besieged Area C Police Station where Erinfolami worked. The lawyer noted that the gunshot to Erinfolami’s stomach thrust out his intestines and he was left to painfully die in a pool of blood, noting that a driver, Okechukwu Iloamuazor, who came out of his car as a result of the gridlock caused by the protest, was also killed by a bullet from the policemen. Ogunye said the deceased Inspector, who was from Ekiti State, left behind a 38-year-old wife, a 10-year-old son, two sons of his late nephew, aged 13 and 7, a 77-year-old father and a 72-year-old mother. He said having lost their breadwinner, Erinfolami’s dependants deserved monetary compensation in the sum of N400m. He also demanded that the police should bear the expenses for the funeral of the deceased. He also demanded the prosecution of Inspector Bagou Michael, Inspector Ekpoudom Etop, Sergeant Nnamdi Madura, and Sergeant Akinyemi Benson, whom the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said had been identified as the policemen behind the shootings of October 12 in Surulere during the #EndSARS protest. The lawyer said, “The police officers who shot and killed     Inspector Ayodeji Bankole Erinfolami had no duty, power or legal right to use live weapons to disperse unarmed peaceful protesters. It was during that unlawful use of firearms that Inspector AyodejiBankoleErinfolami was killed. The killing was totally unwarranted.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      