What was childhood like for you? My childhood basically was a happy one. I was born in Bauchi and I grew up there. I attended L.E.A. Primary School which was behind our house. The place is called Shekal. When I was little, the school used to be called Shekal Primary School but it is now called Babban Mutum Primary School. From there, I proceeded to the Federal Government Girl’s College, Bauchi. I was there from 1983 to 1989, then I got married in December 1992. I got admission to study law in 1991 and in those days, it wasn’t easy for Hausa/Fulani girls to get university education. I got admission to study at the University of Jos, Plateau State, which used to be seen as Western. So I had to get married first before going for my LLB in UNIJOS in the 1993/94 session. I was to finish after five years but because of the incessant industrial actions in those days, I finished in 2000. From there, I proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Lagos Campus. I was successful at the first sitting and I proceeded to go for the mandatory National Youth Service Corps scheme. I did my master’s and a lot of courses. Looking back today, what aspects of your childhood would you say you miss most? I miss the carefree days of my childhood. I was a very carefree child and I am a restless kind of person – the type that doesn’t sit in one place and could play, dance and talk. In those days, we didn’t have mobile phones and even the televisions then were black and white and were not turned on until 4pm. So most times, we played with other children; we would go to Islamiya schools. I honestly miss all those things. You said Hausa/Fulani girls were not easily allowed to get university education. What challenges did you face to get educated as a girl child? In those days, we were mainly taught in Hausa. I used to be one of the brightest in my primary school; that was why I went to Federal Government Girl’s College, Bauchi. But when I got there, I discovered that I couldn’t speak English very well because of the background I had but I was very sharp in class. If you gave me anything to write, I would pass very well but to speak was a problem. I remember while in school, somebody asked me: “How old are you?” I didn’t understand what she meant but if she had asked for my age, maybe I would have understood. So I just left and they laughed at me. What did you study law? Because other pupils used to laugh at me because I couldn’t speak English, I cried and vowed to overcome the challenge. I thought of what I could do overcome and I thought of studying law. I said I must read law so that I would be hitting the table and be speaking English boldly. I thought that way, nobody would laugh at me again and I would be the one laughing at other people. From secondary school, I was motivated to read law. At what point did you first experience real love? Well, I had crushes and all that but for real love, maybe when I met my husband. How did your husband woo you? I love reading books and I love people who listen to me because I can talk very well. He is a kind of person who listens and anytime he came to see me, he would allow me to say whatever I wanted to say. He always brought me books and we would talk about them. So I found a companion and a ‘gist’ partner in him. He always understood me because I actually grew up as an only girl in my house. I had brothers and I was the eldest child. And so, somehow, naturally, I could relate very well with males. I found out that he listened to me and was caring. How did you and your husband meet? We met at a friend’s wedding. I wasn’t the type of person that used to visit people. What did you find attractive in him? My husband is a retired military man now but when I met him, he was a Captain in the Nigerian Army. It was the strength of his personality that attracted me. And like I said, he’s very caring. He could listen, listen and listen very well to you. He was an active listener and he would not interrupt. I found that I could relate very well with him and so the love came naturally. Were you not afraid of dating a military man, let alone marry him? No, not really. I didn’t even know he was a military man. It was later I found out and that further endeared him to me. He was a soldier and well-behaved. How do you and your husband keep the flame burning in your marriage – do you have romantic getaways or watch movies together, etc? Yes, we do that, and my husband is the person I talk to. You know, men don’t gossip but women do, so anything I see or any story I come across, I don’t hide it from him. He trusts me and I also trust him very well. The confidence my husband has in me; I don’t even have that confidence in myself. That’s why I am where I am today because he’s the one that pushes me and he has confidence in me. His care and love for me are beyond this world. What is your typical weekend like? I’m restless so I find it difficult to sit in one place. I feel like I’m not even doing as much as I want to be doing. I can sweep for Africa, so a typical weekend for me will involve sweeping all the rooms in my house. I have somebody who helps me sweep but the person only sweeps the parlour. I will sweep my husband’s room, my room, and my children’s rooms. So a typical weekend will involve cleaning, cooking and having conversation with my husband. Are their favourite places where you love to spend your holidays? Yes, of course. My husband and I love nature so Yankari Game Reserve is one of our favorite places here. We also like visiting Dutse, Jigawa State because of its terrain and topography. Outside the country, we like visiting Indonesia, Dubai in UAE and many other countries. What local food can’t you do without taking in a week? Tuwo and Miyan Kuka; I can’t do without that soup, it’s my favourite. The next is Danwake. Whenever my cook is in the kitchen preparing the Miyan Kuka, I’ll be going to the window to ask: “Is it not done?” Once it’s that soup we are taking, I’ll be anxious. For other kinds of food, it is only when I am hungry that I eat them. You said you grew up as an only girl in your family, what was it like growing up among boys? I was a tomboy; I still am, I think. I was the oldest child. I now have younger sisters but when I was growing up, up till the time when I finished secondary education, I was the only girl in the family, so we used to play football. We used to climb walls, trees and so on. Is there any advice that any of your parents gave you that has lived with you till this day? Yes, both of them but my father especially. There is something we believe in and it has become like a mantra in my family. It’s that, ‘whatever you do, do not cheat anyone.’ People can cheat you but do not cheat anybody. Once you don’t cheat anybody, no harm will come to you. Any form of cheating is haram (forbidden) to us and I live by that. How do your husband and family support what you do? My mother didn’t go to school but my father was very learned. He started from here, went to Ibadan (in Oyo State) and abroad for studies. He was very enlightened and loved his children to school. He pampered the girls more than the boys; he always said that boys could do even menial jobs or anything to support themselves, but he didn’t want the girls to be left behind. He didn’t bother if the boys refused to go to school but he made sure that all the girls went to school so that they would not have any problems. Nigeria just celebrated its 60th independence anniversary, what would you say about the state of the nation? We are not where we should be yet but we are definitely on course. When I was little, there were mostly mud houses. But look at Bauchi now, we have grown. We are not yet there because of certain issues but Nigeria has grown and we are growing. What are your disappointments about Nigeria at 60? It is that we are not yet in the Promised Land. If you visit any country abroad and say you are a Nigerian, they look at you with interest. In China, when you say you are a Nigerian, they look at you with interest; they want to come close to you. They see us as very rich. We don’t even see ourselves the way they see us. I remember a long time ago on our way to Indonesia, one white man was saying if you put your finger in the Nigerian soil, it would grow. It was a metaphor; then, I didn’t even understand that, so I was just laughing, but now I understand. As the President, National Council for Women Societies in Bauchi State, what do you think about the plight of women in the state, across the country and particularly in the North? It is the same everywhere, it’s like people are becoming more aware now. Women are getting more enlightened and becoming entrepreneurs. They no longer want to stay at home; they no longer want to be relegated to just childbearing. They want to contribute to the development of the country. It’s like the giant is waking up, women are waking up in every nook and cranny of Bauchi State. We (NCWS) are dealing with women across all the 20 local government areas of the state. You would be surprised at the level of awareness women in the rural areas now have. Some of them are even better than some of the ones in the urban areas in the sense that they now know their rights; they now know that they shouldn’t stay at home and be dependent on anybody. They now know that they should go out and contribute and lend their voices to curb all the vices going on now. The involvement and participation of women in governance, politics and so on are on the increase. You have been fighting against sexual and gender-based violence in Bauchi State, and there has been an increase in this menace, are you worried? Honestly, I am very worried, as a mother, sister, and aunt. I keep saying it’s as if the devil left his aboard in hell to come and dwell on earth because the problem is alarming. We don’t know where it is coming from; I think it is devilish. We never had it like that in the past but maybe it is because of the social media. In trying to enlighten people, some mischief makers will get some ideas from the stories and start perpetrating their own. The problem is worrisome, honestly. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      