John Alechenu, Abuja A security consultant and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Jackson Ojo, has said Nigeria can ill afford renewed hostilities in the Niger Delta region considering the precarious economic and security situation Nigeria is currently dealing with. He spoke in an interview in Abuja, on Monday. Ojo said this against the backdrop of threats by Niger Delta agitators under the aegis of the Reformed Niger Delta Avengers not to not allow NDDC defend its 2021 budget before the National Assembly Ojo, a certified member of the International Security Association of Switzerland, expressed sadness that despite billions of Naira released for various forms of intervention in the Niger Delta, unwholesome practices by some of contractors and their collaborators has robbed the people of the benefits. According to him, the threat by the avengers should be taken seriously and efforts should be made to resolve whatever the issues are to avoid a breakdown of law and order. Ojo said, “If the people listened to them and there is no budget for year 2021 that will be 24 months of no budget in Niger Delta and at the end of the day if the people of that place start agitating; we will have a problem in our hands. “Two days of the Avengers coming out in the Niger Delta, Nigeria will feel it more than two months of what we see in Lagos recently during the #EndSARS protests. “We all know that NDDC was created some years back although it sprung up from OMPADEC. It is just because of the agitation of the people of Niger Delta to give an upliftment to the development of the Niger Delta region being the region in Nigeria that produces the oil that forms almost 80 per cent of our revenue. “But when you look at the region today, it is nothing to write home about.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   