Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The Seminary Saint Anne’s Old Girls Association has decried the incessant policy somersault in the education sector, saying it has taken a toll on first-choice schools which hitherto produced pacesetters in the socio-economic and political sectors of the country. SSASOGA, comprising Old Girls from CMS Girls School, Kudeti Girls’ School and Saint Anne’s School, raised this concern during its 2020 Annual General Meeting held on Saturday at the Saint Anne’s School, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The first National President of SSASOGA, Similolaoluwa Onabanjo, said, “I would say that because of the inconsistency of our educational policies, Anglican mission is hesitant to take over schools. They might have taken over schools in Lagos but here in Ibadan, there is reluctance. That question should better be asked the Archbishop and the Primate of the Anglican Church. But, I see inconsistency in the (education) policy. One (administration) would come and say schools have been taken over, another would say we return the schools to the mission only for the schools to be taken over again. “When I was in the school, the total population was 300. As we speak, the students are more than 4,000 and we are looking for classrooms. They (students) were just posted but infrastructure is not developed. It is overwhelming and they (missionaries) don’t know what would happen next.” Onabanjo expressed the wish for a “return to the good old standard as a first-choice school,” which she noted was difficult to achieve “with the very high and uncontrolled population in the school.” Onabanjo, who stated that government could not fund education alone without the support of the stakeholders, stressed, “I dare say whatever is free cannot be too good. The demand for education is far above government’s budget. We have to complement the efforts but the situation is so much for us.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 