Tunde Oyekola and Tukur Muntari Four people have been reported dead in a fatal auto crash in Offa, in the Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State. The accident, which happened around 10.27am on Wednesday on the Offa-Ojoku Road, involved one Toyota Camry car and a commercial tricycle. PUNCH Metro gathered that the Toyota Camry, which was driven by an auto-mechanic, rammed into the tricycle, killing three of its occupants and a roadside female trader. A witness revealed that some students of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, who were also in the tricycle, sustained varying degrees of injury. The witness said an irate mob burnt the car, as they blamed the driver for careless driving. The permanent site of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, is located on the Offa-Ojoku Road in Kwara State. Confirming the incident, the Kwara State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Jonathan Owoade, said the corpses were deposited in the mortuary of the General Hospital, Offa, while those injured were receiving treatment at the hospital. He added that the accident occurred around Awrab Hotel Junction, saying a total of eight persons were involved. Owoade said the four injured persons, who were students of the polytechnic, were in a stable condition. “The situation has been put under control by other sister agencies, including members of the Nigerian Navy, Nigeria Police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, as well as our staff who were also on ground to restore normalcy,” he added. In a related development, the Kano State Fire Service has confirmed the death of seven persons in a road accident at Mundubawa Junction, on Hadejia Road, in the Nassarawa Local Government Area of the state. The Public Relations Officer of the agency, Saidu Muhammed, confirmed the incident in a statement on Wednesday. He said the accident occurred around 5.27am on Wednesday when a trailer, with the number plate, XC954GWL, had a head-on collision with a truck, which had no number plate. According to him, the victims were taken to the Sir Sunusi General hospital, where a doctor on duty confirmed seven of them dead. He added that two victims, who sustained injuries, were receiving medical attention at the hospital. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   