What do you think about the nation’s oil and gas industry in relation to the twin challenge of COVID-19 pandemic and crude oil price collapse? COVID-19 has hit everybody. It has impacted demand generally. The OPEC+ initiative to cut production to stabilise the oil price globally has affected Nigeria and quite a number of companies because that reduction had to cascade to all the companies. In the past, the government used to have a concession to allow only the international oil companies to take the hit but this time around, they have spread it across all the companies, including small producers such as ourselves. Production levels have been cut because of the market condition, and this has impacted our revenue level as a nation, our budget, debt level, and now Nigeria is in recession. So, we are feeling the impact of that. The discovery of the COVID-19 vaccine is going to help activities to come back and oil demand will improve. As far as the oil industry is concerned, some of us are still trying to drill some oil. But unfortunately, if you drill the oil now, you can’t produce it because of the OPEC constraints. But we still continue to drill, which is one of the reasons for our company to look at the refinery side of things because once you have a balanced portfolio of upstream and downstream, somehow you are able to offset one against the other. So, for us, it is a portfolio balancing strategy, based on the opportunities available in the market. As one of those whose companies got marginal fields in 2003/2004, how would you describe that programme so far? In any government, I don’t think government anticipates 100 per cent success, particularly with the objective of stimulating indigenous participation in the upstream sector. As it is today, I think probably about half of us are currently in production. If we have about 50 per cent rate of success, I think it is positive. I think it is just for the government to leverage that because those who successfully developed these fields are not going to remain one-field companies. My view is that people who have made a success of it, the government ought to encourage them by giving them consideration in the next bid round of marginal fields so that they can increase their level of activity and, in particular, for companies such as ourselves that have not just been producing the oil, but have also added value to it. This shows you what is possible as a result of government policy and it is for government to see that such a policy is sustained over time. And I think that this is definitely a positive sign that the policy is working. We took an asset that was abandoned for over 20 years, with reserves of about 17 million barrels; we have gone ahead to do some exploratory work to ramp up overall reserves to maybe about 24 million barrels. We have produced about 12-13 million barrels out of it. We then took the risk to build a refinery that has its feedstock on outstanding level of reserves. That reserves will only sustain the refinery for probably another five years or so. We have faith that the government will come to our aid by providing sustainable feedstock for this phase of the refinery and the expansion that we envisage. Your company is the first to complete and inaugurate a modular refinery in the country, and you did this at a time when many who were given licences were still not able to find funding. What did your company do differently in order to achieve this feat? Whatever project you are going to do, you need to have a strong business case for it. So, that is what we have done. We had a strong business case; we didn’t just say because government was issuing refinery licences, we should get the licence. When we conceived this whole refinery idea, it was around how we could support our upstream business because when we produced oil, we were losing about 30 per cent of our revenues as a result of crude theft and pipeline vandalism. So, we thought, ‘Why don’t we just install a modular refinery to help us alleviate these two challenges?’ And we started; then we later realised that indeed, there is a business opportunity. We built a business case around it. So, we then approached a financial institution, the African Finance Corporation, and said, ‘This is a business case for this opportunity.’ And then they looked at it and said, ‘We would like you to make sure that your upstream company supports the refinery by way of collateralising it.’ And we agreed to do that. Once we got them on board, we then went to the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, which provides what I call ‘transitional equity’. Usually, they are not to stay forever; they stay there for a couple of years and then they go. So, we agreed and then decided that they were going to be equity participants. We then technically arranged all the funding that was required for the project, and went ahead to find a competent contractor. That was how we were able to deliver the project on time and on budget. Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) is not among the products being produced by the 5,000- barrels-per-day refinery your company inaugurated last week in Imo State; would you say the lack of deregulation in the downstream sector as of the time you were building the plant was responsible for this? Yes. However, we were looking at a proof of concept that would not expose us to unnecessary risks. But we knew that deregulation was going to come anyway because we didn’t think that the Nigerian government would sustain this subsidy process for another two to three years. We knew it was going to happen but we decided to focus on products that were already deregulated in the first module and then plan the second module to then include those that have not been deregulated which we know will be deregulated by the time we are ready to go to market. Your company is working to expand its refining capacity to 50,000 bpd; other operators/investors are also building refineries, including the massive Dangote refinery; and the nation’s existing plants are being rehabilitated. In the next two to three years, when the country is expected to have surplus refining capacity, do you think operators like your company will be able to survive in this market? Let me tell you a very interesting testimony that I received few days ago in Owerri. It was a gentleman who owns a number of filling stations in Owerri; he was introduced to me and I sent him to the plant to go and buy. So, he came back to me to tell me that in the past, they used to go to Lagos, Warri, Port Harcourt and Calabar to lift products; that there were times that their trucks would stay there for two to three weeks before they are able to lift products. What I just described to you has cost implications on the price at which they sell these products. Now, between Owerri and our refinery, it is just 40 minutes’ drive. He goes to our refinery, his truck can load in one hour, and he is able to drive from our refinery to his filling station within 40 minutes. He is now able to do a lot of turnover; because he has been able to eliminate some of his costs that he used to incur, he has now decided to reduce his sales price to his consumers. And by reducing his price, he is able to do a lot more volume. For lack of a better word, we are a local refinery with a different business model and strategy. We are not going outside our area to look for crude; we are taking crude from our area, which is what we are refining, and we are selling the product within our area and we eliminate the transportation cost that has a major impact on our refining margins. That’s our own model; so we are not in competition with the big refineries that are coming on stream. We are just a local provider of energy products within our own area. And when we go to 50,000bpd, essentially we are going to be selling our products within the South East. And we are confident that we will be competitive because of the cost of crude that we have and our target market for the distribution of our products. Where do you see your company in the next few years? My vision for Waltersmith is for our company to transition from oil into manufacturing. That is my long-term vision ultimately. It is not going to be one or the other. It is going to be both running concurrently, so we will have oil production activity and also be fully involved in manufacturing. When I talk about manufacturing, it is manufacturing related to oil, petrochemicals, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and food processing. Essentially leveraging oil into enabling an environment for competitive manufacturing where manufacturing is going to happen not just for us but also for third parties who will come onboard and co-locate in that environment. To achieve this vision; first, we want to reach 100,000bpd in production over the next 10 years. That is going to come in participating in asset divestment opportunities, farm-in into assets, marginal fields bid opportunities as they come along and also looking for assets around Africa. That is on the exploration and production side. In terms of refining, we are looking at 50,000bpd refining capacity in three modules; 5,000bpd, 25,000bpd and 20,000bpd refining capacity. We are also looking at power generation using gas and renewables. We are looking at 500 megawatts; 300MW will come from gas power plant and 200MW will come from solar energy particularly in northern Nigeria where there is a lot of solar energy available. We are also looking at gas development – 250 million stand cubic feet per day as part of our exploration activities. Finally, we are looking at setting up an industrial park around Ibigwe area which will also be in phases. We are starting with Phase 1 on about 50 hectares of land and we are doing that development in conjunction with United Nations Industrial Development Organisation and United Nations Economic Commission for Africa – those two UN agencies are collaborating with us to develop the industrial technology hub. I believe that in the next six months, we will finish all feasibility studies for that project. The project is currently being adopted by those agencies as part of the country programme in association with Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 