A lot of people marvelled at your picture during the #EndSARS protests. What led to that instructive shot? Let me give a brief background on that particular picture. On October 7, 2020, there was a call for the #EndSARS protest. In Abuja, on October 8, 2020, we came out to protest and I joined a group of Nigerians. On October 10, was the day that particular picture was taken. They were going to come out even though they had been harassed; they were going to do a march and I joined them. I stayed at the back. By the time we got to the police headquarters, we sat down on the hot tarmac and it was quite hot. The youth insisted that they were not going to go, that they were going to wait for the Inspector-General of Police since he wasn’t around, and it was a Saturday. They would wait for him to come back. While we were all standing, I was still at the back; the next thing, the police came out and stood in the frontline with their teargas and guns. That was when I came to the front and I stood and said to the police: ‘If you are going to shoot at them, you will have to put a bullet through me first’. That was on October 10 while we were standing there with the police. There were two people, who actually captured the exact picture of the scene. They were protesters. I think one is a photographer or so. How will you describe the protest and what of the outcome? The campaign has not ended; protests are still ongoing. It may not be as much as it used to be on the streets, but there are people who are still coming out. One of the things happening in Lagos is the fact that the government is bringing in thugs to destroy everything and to attack the #EndSARS protesters. The first time the military was used to attack the protesters was actually in Abuja at the National Assembly complex on October 13, 2020. The Nigerian youths have shown us all that we are not just the leaders of tomorrow, we are also leaders of today; we see them fighting for themselves, raising their voices; we see them taking care of their welfare, their logistics, their health, their security. The Nigerian police refused to even secure the #EndSARS protesters when thugs were beating them up and destroying their property in Lagos. It’s really shameful that the Nigeria Police kept quiet while all these atrocities were being meted out on the #EndSARS protesters and they did nothing about it. That mayhem had absolutely nothing to do with the #EndSARS protesters. The #EndSARS protesters were peaceful, they showed organisation and truth. The #EndSARS protests were not done by some riffraff; these are young people, who are entrepreneurs, who own their own businesses, who are well educated and well-travelled; some of them were educated in the best schools around the world. They were tired of the fact that they were being killed in their own nation; they were tired of the fact that they were being massacred and they came out and spoke. We saw that organisation and they were even able to have a helpline within that two weeks that they did their organisation. The #EndSARS protesters were quite admirable the way they handled themselves. Unfortunately, the Nigerian government decided to behave like a terrorist group and went after peaceful protesters and were killing them. Protesters, who had nothing other than the Nigerian flag and they were singing the national anthem, were actually being killed by military men, who were sent to them on October 20, 2020. How will you rate the way the government handled the plights of Nigerians over the years? Well, the thing is that the behaviour of the Nigerian government has been totally condemnable and it is just so reprehensive. It is so sad that we have a government that really does not care for the Nigerian citizens; a government that is not trustworthy and not patriotic; a government full of people who are there for their own selfish interests. I think the most important thing that needs to happen now is for Nigerians to begin to hold their government accountable; Nigerians should stop blaming victims and should be blaming the perpetrators; the perpetrator in this case is the government. We must ensure that we don’t give the government the enabling environment to keep doing bad things. Most importantly, Nigerians should know that politics is everything; the people you put in office are going to determine the quality of leadership and governance you’re going to get. It is very important for Nigerians to understand that they need to begin to put people in office, who have confidence, character capacity, empathy and are innovative and patriotic. It doesn’t make any sense to keep putting people in positions based on religion or ethnic sentiments, or fear that there are only two parties that have structure; that’s not the way to go. If you continuously put those people, who behave with impunity, they feel it is not the mandate of the people that put them there; they think their loyalty is to the people who gave them their party tickets and all of that. It’s very important for Nigerians to begin to ensure that they are the ones determining who goes into offices, because when we have the right kind of people building the system, we need to trust system; we need strong institutions in Nigeria; what we have are strong men and women and not strong institutions. You can only have strong institutions when you have the right kind of people, who are patriotic, who want what is best for Nigeria rather than what is best for themselves, who are focused on the next generation and not the next election. It is when we have this kind of people in offices that they will be able to do the needful in ensuring that we have the system that can checkmate anyone. There have been job losses, rising inflation, petrol price increase, ASUU strike etc. How do you think Nigeria will cope till 2023 when this government’s tenure will be over? Revolution is imminent. It is either a bloody revolution or a bloodless revolution. I see the government patting themselves on the back, thinking that they have subdued the #EndSARS protests and they are coming after the protesters, taking them one after the other, suppressing and oppressing them. This is not just the way to go and it is not going to take them anywhere, because there is anger and hunger in the land. See what happened with the COVID-19 palliatives that were hidden by the government, food that was supposed to be given to poor people was actually hidden even when people were dying of hunger. You will find out that thousands of people came out to go and get the palliatives. So, there is already anger and you never can tell what will happen next. I have always said that Nigerians who are educated should realise that their education is not for them alone and they should be working towards changing the system; that is how you will have a bloodless revolution. If you don’t do that, the hungry people are going to jump on the street one day and start attacking and killing everybody and they won’t know who is in government and who is not in government, who is given them bad governance or not; everybody is going to look like an enemy to them. So, it is very important for every one of us to begin to see that we have to begin to change the system and to begin to make demands, and that is where protests come in. Protest and make demands so that the government will do the needful. The situation is bad as you can see and it is going to get worse, because you have people in government who do not even care and who do not see the handwriting on the wall. Prayers are not going to solve anything, because God will not do for us what He has given us the capacity to do for ourselves. God has given us everything to be a great nation; He has given us brains; the biggest miracle in the world is our brain. After the protests, there was a lot of backlash from people, who felt you were too outspoken, including women. What do you have to say about this? One of the things we have, which cuts across the two major religions in Nigeria, Islam and Christianity, is that most of the religious leaders are the biggest problem we have. They are in connivance with the political parties; they work together to ensure that the people are oppressed; anything that will lead to people finding their own voices, they are against it because most of the time, what they call miracles are just basic failures of government. So, somebody gets a job, the person is happy that he has been blessed and it is a miracle; no, it’s not a miracle. You are supposed to have a job; it is normal. If the system is working, it should not be difficult for one to get a job. You see people leave school and they carry their certificates to be blessed by their so-called Men of God and all of that. For the clerics who are saying that protest is forbidden, is it killing or raping that is allowed? In the Quran, they said we should fight injustice; we should fight oppression; we should fight terrorists. Our clerics come from an angle where it is preferable to talk to the leaders. For those who are calling for my head, and there are quite a number of people who have asked that I should be killed because of the fact that I do protest and speak out, especially on the #EndSARS issues, I do say to them that they should go and get knowledge. It is so pathetic that they are even living. Anybody that says I should be killed, the first question that I ask is: ‘Is the person alive’? because what we have in Nigeria today is not living, it is pathetic; people are being killed every day. These Muslim clerics, for me, let them go and get knowledge. I am a Muslim; women have their voices and have the capacity to speak during the time of protest. Funny enough, there were women who went to war; women who fought in wars; women who were vocal during sermons and felt things were being done unfairly and they came together and sent a representative to the prophet to challenge him saying: ‘What was happening, they didn’t think was right’. Those were women. So, why are they coming to tell us that women are not supposed to have their voices heard? Most times, most of them either end up with the scriptures based on their patriarchal sense of entitlement and some of them use culture. My advice to women is to have as much knowledge as they can. If you have knowledge, nobody is going to come out and tell you things that are otherwise. What is your advice for Nigerian youths, especially those who were at the front of the #EndSARS protests? My advice to Nigerian youths is that they should look at their strength and do what is called a SWOT analysis; that is, their strength, weakness, opportunities and threats, and use them accordingly. Everything must be done with strategy; it is a marathon. The fact that they have voices now, they must ensure that they don’t lose those voices. They should be strategic in everything they do and that is very important. It doesn’t make any sense that you just sit down and the government will just come and kill you. Be strategic, use everything that you have; use your strength, use your intelligence, social media, technology and creativity, and come after the government. Don’t put yourself in a position where they will victimise you and start shooting and killing. This government is just like a terrorist government and it metes out terror on its citizens and it doesn’t care about killings. Most important is to know that to fix Nigeria, you need to fix the politics. You begin to take part in politics and this is the time for them to come together to know who are the people who are going to represent them in the National Assembly and at the local government, state and presidential levels. Having the right people in offices makes it easier for everyone. So, I will say to them that you just started, keep on going, raise your heads up higher and never allow yourself to be intimidated; watch out for each other; all for one and none for all; that is the motto. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      