Ade Adesomoju, Abuja THE Federal High Court in Abuja on Wednesday joined the National Assembly as the fifth defendant in a N50bn suit filed by the leaders of some socio-cultural groups in the southern and North-Central parts of the country challenging the alleged lopsided appointments which they claimed to be a recurrent feature of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) . Justice Okon Abang made the order following an application by the plaintiffs through their lawyer, Mrs Nella Andem-Rabana (SAN), at the Wednesday’s proceedings. In the joinder application earlier filed on October 2, 2020, the plaintiff had said the National Assembly was a necessary party to the suit because its “rights and responsibilities are affected by the questions raised for determination” by the plaintiffs. They also contended that the National Assembly “will be affected by the eventual decision of the court”, adding that the application was therefore filed “in the interest of justice”. “The National Assembly of Federal Republic is hereby joined as the 5th defendant in this matter,” Justice Abang ordered in a short ruling. The judge also ordered the plaintiffs to ensure the service of the suit and other processes on the new defendant. In a separate ruling, the judge also granted the President and the AGF, the 1st and 2nd defendants, who were represented by Mr Oyin Koleosho, an extension of time within which to file their responses to the suit. The request for the application for extension of time was not opposed by the plaintiffs’ counsel and the other defence lawyers – Mr Mohammed Iliasu representing the Clerk of the National Assembly (the 3rd defendant), and Mr Garuba Zulfik for the Federal Character Commission (the 4th defendant). The judge subsequently adjourned the matter till January 28 for hearing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   