Sunday Aborisade and Leke Baiyewu The spokesperson for the Senate, Dr Ajibola Basiru, has said the Senate would start the consideration of the Finance Bill upon its receipt from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday. Basiru stated this on Monday, while explaining issues that the red chamber would be deliberating upon their resumption for plenary today (Tuesday), in an interview with our correspondent. The Senate adjourned plenary on October 20 to work on the budget. Basiru said, “We are going to work on the Petroleum Industry Bill and the Constitution amendment Act. “We would also receive the Finance Bill for consideration and approval because it is part of what we would need for the operations and implementation of the 2021 budget.” Meanwhile, investigations by our correspondent also revealed that the red chamber would also at plenary make its position known on the #EndSARS protests and its effects on Nigerians. Another issue that might also dominate deliberations during plenary is the recent revelation that the nation’s economy has gone into full recession. Reps present police reform bill The National Assembly will resume plenary on Tuesday (today) after adjourning since October 22 for standing committees to hold budget defence sessions with ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government on the 2021 Appropriation Bill. On resumption, the House of Representatives has scheduled presentation and first reading of the of the Police Service Commission (Reform) Bill, which proposes creation of state offices for the commission to take public complaints and investigate allegations against men of the Nigeria Police Force. The bill is the aftermath of the recent protests against brutality and human rights abuses by men of the Nigeria Police Force. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Sunday, while meeting with newspaper distributors and vendors in Abuja, disclosed the issues topping the agenda of the House as plenary resumes, including the Petroleum Industry Bill, Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, among others. In the PSC bill, a copy of which our correspondent obtained, the House is also proposing that Special Units of the NPF to be created by the Inspector-General of Police are scrutinised and approved by the PSC. The commission, which is expected to have more stakeholders in its board, will also be empowered to set up panels to investigate policemen and recommend them for sanctions or prosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 