MAHMOOD Yakubu recently made history as the first head of Nigeria’s electoral body to get a second term. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), reappointed him as Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission for another five-year term. Since he became the INEC chairman in November 2015, Yakubu has overseen several polls, including the 2019 general election that returned Buhari. But while there have been some positives in some of the polls conducted during his time, there have also been many negatives that have done nothing to make many Nigerians repose confidence in the discredited system. The renewed mandate however presents him with the challenge to leave the electoral system a lot better than he met it. Five years is sufficient to bring the country’s electoral process very close to globally acceptable standards. With predictions of calamity attending our presidential elections over the decades, Nigeria’s democracy is exposed as vulnerable. Building a successful democracy is, therefore, hinged on getting the electoral process right. The country’s politics suffers greatly because the electoral process has proved to be incapable of producing quality leaders. The electoral culture is such that the elaborate rules are breached with impunity by desperate politicians. The ensuing system favours corrupt politicians and godfathers with deep pockets, providing paved ways to elective offices for the highest bidders, the most violent and the least qualified candidates. Free and fair elections are the backbone of every democracy but frankly, the right to vote and for votes to count is only a means to an end. For the people, the goal is to have improved education, welfare, healthcare, standard of living and more opportunities. This is why it is important to have a strong electoral system that will ensure the emergence of the people’s choices and quality candidates. The United States State Department expressed deep disappointment about the quality of Nigeria’s 2019 general election, describing the process as marred by “vote-buying, low voter turnout, voter suppression, violence in some locations and interference by security agencies.” These do not inspire enough confidence in Nigerians and discourage the majority from undertaking the civic responsibility of going out to vote. For instance, INEC announced that 84 million people registered to vote in the 2019 elections, 72 million of them collected their Permanent Voter Cards – which are required to vote – but only 28 million voted in the presidential election, representing a mere 34.75 per cent, the lowest since the return to civil rule in 1999. Based on data released by the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance on the 2019 elections, voter turnout in the 2019 elections in Nigeria “is the lowest of all recent elections held on the African continent.” The turnout, the group noted, “happens to be the second lowest in the history of elections held in African countries – the lowest being 32.3 per cent in the 1996 Zimbabwean presidential election.” Voter apathy is blamed largely on lack of trust in the system and the calibre of people it produces as leaders. Therefore, bringing back the trust of the people is one of the key challenges before Yakubu in his second term in office. Building INEC to become an institution impervious to outside influence, including from the executive, should be fast-tracked. INEC must not only become an impartial institution, it must also be seen to be so. So, the legislation needed to achieve that level of independence and efficiency must be pushed for as soon as possible. There should be effective institutional safeguards to checkmate the tendency of corrupt, desperate politicians to hijack the process. The system must be robust enough to make it extremely difficult for them and to ensure the punishment of violators. High levels of voter participation are required for democracy to thrive. The 21st Century is an age where humanity relies more and more on technology, and voting should not be an exception. As much as possible, the time and effort required to vote should be reduced. Judging by recent events, it is obvious that Nigerian youths, the largest population segment, are active on the Internet and the traditional voting methods will surely not fit their technology-driven lifestyles. Internet-based voting will aid in bringing the younger voters into the voting bracket. Elsewhere, Brazil has adopted nationwide electronic voting since 2000, while India has deployed electronic voting machines in nationwide parliamentary elections since 2004. Similarly, according to a document titled, ‘The Future of Elections’ produced by The International Elections Advisory Council, “Estonia has implemented Internet voting for all parliamentary elections since 2007.” In the 2015 parliamentary elections, one-third of Estonians chose to vote online. The council attributed the success recorded by the countries using electronic and Internet voting systems to “highly effective voter education efforts,” among other factors. It is good that INEC has already announced the date for the next presidential election – February 18, 2023. The National Assembly should give INEC the mandate and the funds to be more ambitious and innovative. Since Buhari declined assent to The Electoral (Amendment) Bill, which had been passed by the Eighth National Assembly, now is the time to work with the current NASS to ensure the bill quickly gets the President’s assent. It is shameful that the successive governments have allowed the report of the Justice Mohammed Uwais-led Electoral Reform Committee submitted since December 2008 to gather dust. Now is the time to implement its robust recommendations that among others touched on independent candidacy, defections, electronic voting, ceiling on individual donations to candidates and parties. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 