Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Uche Secondus, has said Nigeria is currently in distress. Secondus said this during the Bayelsa State Thanksgiving Day celebration, held at the Ecumenical Centre, Yenagoa, on Monday. The party chairman who was accompanied by some members of the PDP National Working Committee, said, “Nigeria, at the moment, is in distress, and there cannot be any other occasion than to come to the House of God and face God and to thank him for what he has done, and what he will do. “Because of a truth, I believe, and my faith is very strong that God is going to do something new in Nigeria.” READ ALSO: Alleged Oyigbo killings to divert attention from IPOB’s crime – Wike In his remarks at the event, former President Goodluck Jonathan urged the political class to shun divisive politics and unite for the growth and development of the state. Jonathan said, “In Bayelsa State, the political class should know that we get into politics primarily for the interest of the state and the people of the state. “So, no matter our political divisions, no matter the political parties, or the leanings we belong within the parties, just because of the interest of the state, we should know that we must be friends and we must unite.” Also speaking, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who was represented by the Special Adviser to the President on Religious Matters, Seyi Malomo, said, “Thanksgiving is ingrained in all the cultures of the people of Nigeria.” The host governor, Douye Diri, in his address said, “We should be building bridges in this state and not burning our bridges. This is not the time to continue in litigation. This is the time to build, and bring our ideas to the table.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com