Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt A magistrates’ court in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has remanded a father, Chinedu Anthony and his lover, Chiwendu Nwokeike, over their alleged maltreating of Anthony’s five-year-old son. Anthony’s partner Chiwendu who lives in the same house with the man and his son was also arraigned for the same crime, as they locked up the boy, Goodluck Chinedu, inside a store in their house for more than a week. The duo were arrested after their neighbours alerted a lawyer who in turn contacted the International Federation of Women Lawyers to rescue the boy. The magistrate, Nnenna Ezeobuzor, who declined to entertain the matter, advised that the case file be transferred to the Department of Public Prosecutions for legal advice. Speaking to journalists after the court sitting, Vice Chairman, FIDA, Rivers State, Nnenna Ibokwe, spoke on the boy’s experience before his rescue. Ibokwe said, “The abuse and violence have been going on for about two years. The boy was treated like an animal, locked up in a cement store with no proper care and provision. “He is so malnourished and neighbours used to throw food into the store through an opening for him to eat. When the father discovered this, he sealed the opening. “With help of neighbours, he was arrested and brought before the court for attempted murder, an offence punishable with life imprisonment,” Ibokwe stated. She however advised parents and guardians to respect the rights and dignity of their children, saying, “If you have any child in your custody, whether that child is yours or not, it is your duty to protect the child. You don’t have any right to maltreat the child. You don’t have any right to abuse the child. If you cannot keep a child that is not yours, please send the child back.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 