A remote Spanish village of seven people has saved its unique 16th-century church from imminent collapse by raising money through crowdfunding. The church of San Lorenzo Mártir in Fuenteodra, a hamlet set in a natural park near Burgos in the north, was closed 15 years ago, having fallen into disrepair after decades of neglect. Its walls are riven by large cracks and its roof is in ruins, a victim of what is called “Empty Spain” — rural parts of the country suffering from depopulation. The Sunday Times reports that the local community has raised the €30,000 needed for the first phase of its rescue. “Just a week ago, we launched a call to get the remaining €20,000 that was needed to begin the restoration of the church,” said Hispania Nostra, a conservation group that has helped raise awareness of the village’s campaign. “Despite the economic crisis, the response has exceeded the most optimistic expectations: more than 420 micro-donors, mostly national, but also some from outside our borders, have made it possible to reach the figure with contributions ranging from €10 to €1,000.” The building is a rare masterpiece of the Brabantine Gothic style, and it boasts a gilt baroque altarpiece, renaissance doorway, high vaulted ceiling and refined stone carving. But despite its impressive buttressed walls, which are largely covered in algae and bare where the plaster has fallen away, it is on the brink of destruction. The church will need another €270,000 to carry out the required basic rescue work. “We are proud of what we’ve achieved but we will carry on fighting. Being a small village with only seven neighbours and with very little resources should not be an excuse to abandon this irreplaceable heritage to its fate,” Javier Maisterra, the leader of the rescue group, said. “Our church is in a very bad state. Experts think that if we don’t act quickly and with force it will not last the winter.” The village has petitioned the regional government and the archbishop of Burgos, who is responsible for the building but who has so far only pledged unspecified financial support. “A village of seven can only start the project. We can’t do it alone,” Maisterra said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 