Dayo Ojerinde Experts have stressed the need to raise awareness in preventing diabetes mellitus. The experts in a statement said early detection was also key in treating the disease. An Endocrinologist at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Gombe, Dr Sule Bathnna, said eating healthy diets and engaging in exercise were also important in preventing diabetes. He said, “Diabetes can majorly be prevented by eating healthy foods, getting more physically active, avoiding smoking and adopting other healthy lifestyle practices. The basic principles for management in diabetic patients include lifestyle modifications and medications if needed. “However, it is worthy to note that there is no cure for diabetes, but it can be treated and controlled. The immediate goals of managing diabetes are to keep blood glucose levels as near to normal as possible, control blood pressure and decrease or possibly prevent the development of diabetes-related health problems. “In addition, diabetes treatment is a holistic measure that equally involves effective control of blood pressure, blood lipids and maintaining normal weight in addition to being physically active and these are not mutually exclusive.” A Pharmacist and Product Manager at Mega Lifesciences Nigeria, Dr. Ibukun Adetuyi, while corroborating Bathnna, said, “Educating individuals at risk and currently diagnosed is the first step in reducing diabetes prevalence and that is the basis for the Good Health by Yourself initiative. Over the years, Mega Lifesciences has played an active role in reducing the impact of diabetes by providing free blood sugar and neuropathic screenings in communities.” “Furthermore, we have given out monofilaments at hospitals, a commonly used test for neuropathy, thereby, reaching over 25, 000 patients, 52 hospitals, and 20 pharmacies in Nigeria. This year’s world diabetes day will feature educational materials distributed across multiple channels, training sessions for healthcare professionals on new trends in diabetes treatment and partnerships with complementary organisations.’ She said the pharmaceutical companies had unveiled a campaign tagged, ‘Mega We Care 2020 Diabetes Awareness,’ to educate Nigerians on how to prevent the disease. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   