FRIDAY OLOKOR The Federal Government has directed the Senate of the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, to convene a special meeting to select one of its members to act as acting vice-chancellor. Observers believed that the decision was to avert a similar crisis similar to the one recently experienced at the University of Lagos. The government also directed the university’s governing council to suspend its meeting scheduled to hold by 10am on Monday to discuss issues on the appointment of a new vice-chancellor but directed that the meeting be shifted to the afternoon of the same day. According to the government, the person to be selected must not be a contestant for the position. The Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, issued the directive in a letter to the university by the Deputy Executive Secretary (Academics), National Universities Commission, Dr Suleiman Ramon-Yusuf. The letter dated Friday, November 27, 2020, obtained by our correspondent on Saturday, faulted the proposed meeting of the governing council slated for 10am on Monday. The government said since the tenure of the outgoing vice-chancellor expires on Monday, it would be inappropriate for the governing council to convene the meeting as early as 10am on the same day to discuss and consider his possible successor. The letter reads, “In view of the fact that the tenure of the incumbent vice-chancellor expires on Monday, November 30, 2020, it is pertinent for the governing council to meet in the afternoon of Monday, November 30, 2020, to consider and approve the appointment of the Senate nominee as acting vice-chancellor. ”The University Senate should convene a special meeting for the purpose of selecting one of its members who is not a candidate in the process for the selection of a new vice-chancellor, for recommendation to the governing council for appointment as acting vice-chancellor for a period of ‘not more than six months as stipulated in Section 3(13) and (14 ) of the Universities (Miscellaneous provisions: (Amendment) Act, 2002. “In view of the fact that the tenure of the incumbent vice-chancellor expires on Monday, November 30, 2020, it is pertinent for the governing council to meet in the afternoon of Monday, November 30, 2020 to consider and approve the appointment of the Senate nominee as acting vice-chancellor in order to avoid a vacuum in the administration of the university. ”Following the appointment of an acting vice-chancellor, the outgoing vice-chancellor should hand over to the acting vice-chancellor possibly on Monday, November 30, 2020, or latest by Tuesday, December 1 2020.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 