Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Tuesday, began hearing of a suit filed by a governorship aspirant in Ondo State, Dr. Nath Adojutelegan, challenging the validity of the primary election which produced Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu as the All Progressives Congress’ candidate in the October 2020 governorship election in the state. Justice Okon Abang has fixed Friday, for the concluding phase of the hearing. He said a date for judgment will be fixed at the end of the Friday’s hearing. The judge had planned to conclude the hearing on Tuesday, but had to adjourn due to the non-service of a counter-affidavit filed by the Independent National Electoral Commission, on other parties to the suit. He directed INEC’s lawyer, Abdulaziz Sani, to ensure the service of the counter-affidavit on the other parties within 48 hours. The judge also informed the lawyers representing the other parties that they were at liberty to reply to the counter-affidavit. The suit was filed on August 3, 2020 by Adojutelgan, who along with others, lost the APC primary election to Akeredolu. Dissatisfied with the outcome of the primary election, the plaintiff on August 3, 2020, filed the suit marked, FHC/ABJ/CS/886/2020, alleging that the exercise was marred by grave and substantial noncompliance with the spirit and purpose of the APC’s Constitution, Electoral Guidelines and the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), which he argued “substantially affected the outcome of the primary election.” Sule presents N112.92bn budget to Nasarawa Assembly Umar Muhammed, Lafia The Governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule has presented a budget proposal of N112. 92 billion for the 2021 fiscal year to the state assembly for consideration and approval. While presenting the 2021 budget to the lawmakers, in Lafia, on Tuesday, the governor explained that the Covid-19 pandemic and the attendant economic realities has made it imperative for his administration to review the budget downwards. Sule, who tagged the 2021 budget as, “Budget of Economic Recuperation,” said, “the budget framework showed an increase of N4,478,368,930 only, over and above the original 2020 Fiscal Year budget estimate translating to a 4.13 per cent increase.” He further said, “The Revised Budget was primarily targeted at the control and containment of the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic, by way of preventive measures and emergency preparedness and response.” “The budget is so christened because in our considered opinion, it is a budget of economic recovery and revitalization targeting at addressing some of the negative economic challenges encountered in the Fiscal Year 2020. “The total expenditure outlay of the 2021 estimate is in the sum of One Hundred and Twelve Billion, Nine Hundred and Twenty-three Million, One Hundred and Seventy-four Thousand, Five Hundred and Forty-three Naira (N112,923,174,543) only.” The speaker, Mr. Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, who received the budget after Sule’s presentation, assured him that the house will ensure its speedy passage. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      