Lara Adejoro A  renowned Professor of virology and former Vice-Chancellor of the Redeemer’s University Nigeria, Oyewale Tomori, says emerging indices show that Nigeria is not winning the war against COVID-19. In an exclusive interview with PUNCH HealthWise, Tomori said Nigeria was concentrating more on battling the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, without consideration for the other Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. Tomori said, “We are not winning either war and as we fight the Police SARS, we are forgetting and losing the other. “The low positives we are getting reflect the low numbers we are testing. Many states have stopped reporting. “Lagos talked of 181 students testing positive out of 440; there was a report of a university in Kaduna State with positive students, yet no one is talking about these,” he warned. The virologist expressed concerns that though the continent was fortunate enough to be spared the COVID-19 fatalities currently ravaging Europe, he, nevertheless, warned that Nigeria need not rest for now. “Yes, we are not seeing the European situation here but let us not deceive ourselves about the drop in the number of positives, it is a reflection of a significant drop in the number of tests performed. The epidemiology of the COVID-19 disease in Europe differs from that of Africa. So, we have to use different approaches. “Have we done some things right? Yes, of course, but we have also not done many things right like inadequate and uncoordinated testing, like poor contact tracing. like non-complying with basic preventive measures,” Tomori noted. In another interview with our correspondent, Kogi state Chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association, Dr. Omakoji Simeon Oyiguh revealed that the association has set up a COVID-19 committee which is due to be inaugurated next week. Oyiguh said the committee would focus on how the State branch of the NMA would deal with controlling both COVID-19 and other emerging diseases. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com