Ife Ogunfuwa Poise Nigeria and EkoBits Academy in partnership with Oxfam has equipped 37 more youths from different underserve communities around Lekki-Ajah axis with ICT and employability skills. A statement on Monday said Poise, through its Graduate and Communal Support Foundation trained the youths for 12 months in graphic design, web design and development, photography, video editing and soft skills that will make them employable and keep them on their jobs. The statement titled ‘Poise Nigeria and Poise Graduate and Communal Support Foundation empowers youths in 21st century soft skills and ICT skills’ said all 37 youths from Jakande, Ikota, Ajiran, Awoyaya and Ikate community graduated from the academy last week. The Product Manager at Descasio Limited and an alumnus of Poise Graduate Finishing Academy, Mrs Bunmi Malik, advised the graduating students not to stop at just the skill they learnt but that to explore opportunities around them and learn more. The Chief Operating Officer, Poise Nigeria, Mrs Nonye Calli-Bechi, motivated the beneficiaries with an insightful speech, emphasising on dedication and shared a story on how she started her career and how she had been dedicated to her profession. Awards were presented to the Overall Best Graduating Student, Mr Oversenri Emmanuel; Best Graduating Female Student, Miss Adedoyin Favour; Best Web Developer, Mr.  Degbor Johnson; Best Graphics Designer, Mr Opeyo Michael; It added that Mr Oduola Tolulope was awarded Mr Congeniality in recognition of his soft skills. According to the statement, the youths and their parents thanked all partners and donors at the end of the programme. The statement said the TechforWomen initiative by Poise Nigeria and EkoBits in partnership with Oxfam had trained 45 girls and young women in the past 10 months. It added that the beneficiaries came from Itedo, Igbara, Ilasan, Igbo-efon and Ilaje-Ajah communities in Lagos. It said the organisations were currently training 15 more girls from communities around the training centre such as Lafiaji, Ikota and Jakande. Also, Poise said the TechJobs initiative, which aims to advance software development training to get young African software developers, trained 15 youths from different parts of Lagos. It said seven of the beneficiaries got jobs from Tunga while 35 more youths were currently taking the training from different states in Nigeria virtually. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com