Peter Dada, Akure There was a mild drama at the main entrance of the Ondo State House of Assembly, on Thursday, as the suspended members of the House, were allegedly prevented from entering the Assembly complex. This was in spite of a reinstatement order issued by a court. It was alleged that the security men at the gate of the Assembly enforced the directive from the Speaker of the Assembly, Mr. Bamidele Oloyeloogun, that none of the suspended lawmakers should be allowed into the premises. The Appeal Court sitting in Akure, had on Wednesday, upheld the judgment of the state High Court which ordered the Assembly to reinstate the embattle lawmakers and pay their entitlements. The affected lawmakers, including the Deputy Speaker, Mr. Iroju Ogundeji, Mrs. Favour Tomomewo and Mr Wale Williams, are members of the ruling All Progressives Congress. They were earlier suspended by the leadership of the House over alleged gross misconduct but the courts (both High Court and the Appeal Court) nullified the suspensions. Speaking about the development, Ogundeji said, “Yesterday (Wednesday), the appellate court ruled that the motion brought before it concerning our suspension was frivolous and ordered that we should be reinstated to do our legislative duties immediately without hindrance. That is why we were here but on getting here, we saw that everywhere was locked and we were not allowed to enter.” In response, the Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Mr. Gbenga Omole, said the House was yet to receive a copy of the judgment. He said, “As I’m speaking with you, we only read the judgment on social media, we have not got the hard copy of the judgment. When they were coming, they failed to bring the copy of the judgment along. But because they are mischievous, that is why they didn’t bring the copy of judgment along.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 