Daud Olatunji and Bola Bamigbola Eight persons have been confirmed dead in separate accidents at Ogere, Ogun State, along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and Iwo-Ibadan Road, Iwo, in Osun State. Six persons were confirmed dead while one other person sustained injuries in the Ogun crash, involving a truck and a Honda Pilot SUV. The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps in the state, Mr Ahmed Umar, confirmed the incident to newsmen in Abeokuta on Saturday. Umar said the incident happened around 7am and was caused by excessive speeding and loss of control on the part of the SUV driver. According to him, eight men and a woman were involved in the accident “out of which five male and one female died”. Umar stated, “The speed of the Honda Pilot marked LSR 525 FY was excessive; it lost control and rammed into a moving truck with the number plate, KRV 716 ZV. “Only the injured victim was taken to Idera Hospital, Ogere for medical attention, while the deceased were deposited at FOS Morgue, Ipara.” The sector commander advised drivers to always obey traffic rules and regulations. In the Osun accident, two people – a man and a woman – lost their lives in the accident that occurred around 10am on Saturday. A commuter, who was at the scene of the accident, said a Bajaj motorcycle and a Lexus car had a head-on collision. The eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said four other persons sustained varying degrees of injury and were rushed to the General Hospital, Iwo for treatment. Public Education Officer, Osun Sector Command of the FRSC, Agnes Ogungbemi, confirmed the casualties. She said, “The accident was probably caused by dangerous driving or speed limit violation. The deceased (persons) have been deposited at the General Hospital mortuary in Iwo. The injured (persons) were also given first aid at the same hospital.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 