Tony Okafor,Awka South-East transport operators in Onitsha, Anambra State, on Wednesday threaten boycott of Lagos and Northern routes over incessant robbery attacks and abduction on the highways leading to Lagos, Abuja and other parts of the North They threatened boycott of the routes  if nothing was done urgently to address the situation. The protesters included luxury bus owners, commuter buses and executive Sienna bus operators . They said they would mobilise other transport operators who ply  Enugu, Aba and Port Harcourt  to cripple socioeconomic activities nationwide. They lamented increased incidences of   armed robbery and abduction of passengers on the highways after the #EndSARS protests. The Manager, God’s Will Transport, Emenike Okafor, who addressed journalists in Onitsha identified Benin bypass – Ogbemudia farm to Ore and Kogi -Lokoja–Abuja highway as the most dangerous  spots where the bandits operated unhindered. He said, “In the last two weeks, there have been recorded cases of robbery and abduction involving Sienna and Hummer buses with about six passengers kidnapped in the mentioned areas. “We called on the Inspector General of Police to activate its rapid response mechanism and the establishment of  a joint patrol team involving the army, police and civil defence corps in the affected areas. “Travelling has become increasingly risky owing to the security challenges. “Those who unleashed the attack did that to destabilise the country’s security network and they should not be allowed to succeed. We want the police to go back to their duty posts with renewed vigour and zeal. “Let the government motivate them by improving their welfare packages and ensure that those casualties already recorded receive adequate compensation.” While commiserating  with the police over the casualties and losses recorded during the #EndSARS  protests, Okafor  noted  that no responsible citizen no matter how highly provoked would engage in burning, looting and attacking  the police institution saddled with the task of protecting the citizenry. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   