Oladimeji Ramon A 35-year-old hairdresser, Mrs Hannah Olugbodi, on Saturday, narrated how she ended up on a crutch after her left leg was shattered by a stray bullet fired by some men of the disbanded police Special Anti-Robbery Squad who were attempting to arrest a young man with tattoos in June 2018 in the Ijeshatedo area of Lagos. Olugbodi said the SARS operatives were at one Ogun City Hotel to demand money to fuel their vehicle when they saw the young man with tattoos among a group of people watching a football match at the hotel. According to the petitioner, the owner of the hotel, one Abu, who usually gave the SARS operatives money, was not around  to attend to them. She said the SARS operatives labelled the young man with tattoos a Yahoo Yahoo boy (cyber fraudster). She said an attempt by the SARS operatives to arrest and take the boy with tattoos away was resisted by the other boys, making the SARS operatives to resort to firing gunshots. Olugbodi said she was at Ijesha market trying to buy pepper to prepare food for her children to take to school the following day when she was hit by a stray bullet. According to her, the market women rushed towards her and asked her for her address and the name of her husband, which she managed to give them before passing out. She said she was eventually taken to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital where there was said to be no bed space and she was given four bags of intravenous fluid right in the bus. “The doctor said they needed to do four surgeries. The bullet affected my bone. The doctor said the second surgery would involve cutting my bone because the bone did not survive,” she said. Olugbodi said she spent six months in LUTH and the doctor told her she needed to return two years later for a follow-up surgery. Police shot me in the head, killed my girlfriend, man tells panel Also, a 33-year-old man, Emmanuel Ajomafuwe, on Saturday, pleaded with the panel to help him and his girlfriend shot dead by a policeman get justice. Ajomafuwe told the Okuwobi-led panel that he was driving with his 20-year-old girlfriend, Ada Ifeanyi, around 7am on Saturday, April 13, 2019, in the Apapa area of Lagos when he was accosted by a team of policemen. He said the policemen claimed that they had flagged him down but he refused to stop, to which he responded that he was not aware he was being stopped as it was raining. “Due to the argument between me and the police, while I was still inside the car, I was shot on the head by Inspector Dania Ojo. Inspector Dania Ojo also shot my girlfriend in the leg and stomach. “I was lucky to survive the life-threatening injury to my head but my girlfriend died,” Ajomafuwe said. The petitioner said, while he was grateful to be alive, he had continued to suffer from psychological trauma from the incident. He added that he could no longer sleep at night without taking sleeping pills. “I’ve had a brain scan at Reddington Hospital, where I was admitted. I’ve done a check-up in Dubai due to my sleeping issue. “My sanity has not been the same after the incident. Anytime I remember, I feel bad,” Ajomafuwe said. He said, while six members of the police team involved in the incident were arrested at the time, Inspector Dania Ojo escaped and the police had not given him any update on him. I want scholarship for my children —LASTMA officer’s widow Mrs Silifat Adeyemo, the widow of an officer of the Lagos State Traffic Management, Rotimi Adeyemo, who was killed by a policemen at Iyana Ipaja in November 2018, pleaded with the panel to help her secure scholarships up to university level for her three children. The widow, who was all tears, told the Okuwobi-led panel, that her husband was at his duty post at Iyana Ipaja roundabout when he was killed by a SARS officer, Olakunle Olonade. She said the deceased and herself were at home from the morning of that day till about 2pm when it was time for him to resume his afternoon shift.  She said they left the house together because she also wanted to buy certain things. She said at about 10pm when she was expecting her husband to return, it was her sister-in-law and a friend that she saw. “I want the panel to help me financially, because it has not been easy ever since he left me with the kids to care of. The future of my children is most paramount to me. I want them to be given good education up till the university level. I don’t know if they can grant them scholarship to university; and also give us a good house,” she added. Under cross-examination, the widow, however, affirmed when the police counsel, Joseph Ebosereme,  told her: “The Lagos State Government gave you N10m?” She, however, said N10m had since finished because her children were just a year-old at the time. The panel adjourned the case till December 11. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 