Ife Ogunfuwa The International Labour Organisation has warned that the novel coronavirus pandemic is putting the freedom and rights of workers at risk. The organisation in a new document published by the Fundamentals Branch of ILO said many countries faced rising poverty, inequality and vulnerability as a result of the crisis. ILO said fundamental principles and rights at work could play a vital role in building effective responses that support recovery from the COVID-19 crisis and help build back a better, more just, world of work. The ‘Issue paper on COVID-19 and fundamental principles and rights at work’ gave a comprehensive overview of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on child labour, forced labour, discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining. It highlighted how a downward spiral into informality, poverty and exploitation could be reversed to build back better and to leave no one behind. ILO noted that the urgent need for an integrated response to the pandemic had not yet been met. The document addressed all four fundamental principles and rights at work – forced labour, child labour, discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining – and highlighted the importance of mainstreaming them into COVID-19 responses, to ensure such responses were inclusive. “Protecting people’s lives must be our priority,” Officer in Charge, Fundamentals Branch, Francesco d’Ovidio, said. He added, “Protecting livelihoods helps us do this. The particular strength of these fundamental principles is their inter-related and mutually-reinforcing nature. “Basing our policies around them paves the way for a recovery that is socially and economically inclusive, and ensures that the needs of the most vulnerable are taken into account.” The paper finds that limits on freedom of movement and public gatherings, brought in as part of some national pandemic responses, were making the realisation of rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining more difficult, both in law and practice. According to the paper, this affects the two billion people working in the informal economy who often lack a collective and representative voice. The ILO noted that recent initiatives to identify and address child labour and forced labour in global supply chains were also now in jeopardy, ‘as businesses at all levels struggle to cope with the crisis and the severe demand shocks associated with it’. The labour organisation proposed a four-pillar policy framework for the response to COVID-19. According to the ILO, the framework should cover stimulating the economy and employment; supporting enterprises, jobs and incomes; protecting workers in the workplace; and relying on social dialogue for solutions. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 