Olalekan Adetayo and Dennis Naku THE Pan Niger Delta Forum has described the failure of a Federal Government delegation to turn up for a meeting it called with key stakeholders of the South-South geopolitical Zone Zone, as “one insult too many”. The meeting scheduled to hold at the Government House in Port Harcourt on Tuesday was called off by the Federal Government delegation at the last minute, after traditional rulers, governors, clergy, elders, leaders, women and youths of the six South-South states had gathered in the Rivers State capital and waited for hours. PANDEF, in a statement by its National Chairman, Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga (retd.), said the action of the apex government was a clear disregard for the entire zone. The statement reads, “It was a clear demonstration of contempt and disregard for the entire South-South Zone. The reason offered for the deplorable action is completely untenable and unacceptable. This is one Insult too many. “PANDEF restates the demand of the governments and people of South-South Zone that the Presidency and indeed, the Federal Government, should offer an unreserved public apology to the zone. “They won’t treat a district head in their areas the way and manner they treated our traditional rulers, elders and our governors. They have to publicly apologise, otherwise they should forget any further thought of a meeting with our people. Enough is indeed enough.” Continuing, he said, “It is even more unfortunate that the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, a seasoned diplomat of global repute, who should know better, is involved in this ignominious display. “We are curious that the ministers and other top government officials from the South-South geopolitical zone were also not present for the meeting, and did not deem it fit to call the governors or leaders. “Were they also part of the emergency security meeting at the Presidential Villa or they had foreknowledge of the plan to botch the meeting?” Nkanga added, “That is why Zamfara gold is for Zamfara people while Niger Delta crude oil is for the whole of Nigeria. It is also why they have not added an inch of construction to the critical East-West road in the over five years of the administration. “Let it be known to them that whether they desire to meet with us or not, the people of the South-South Geopolitical Zone have taken a firm stand on the issue of restructuring of Nigeria. We are the biggest victims of Nigeria’s flawed federal system. All we want is true federalism!” Presidency regrets FG’s absence Meanwhile, the Presidency on Wednesday said it regretted the absence of its representatives at a meeting of South-South stakeholders fixed for Tuesday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State While attributing the development to an emergency meeting of the National Security Council held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on the same day, it said a new date for the meeting would be fixed after dues consultations. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, disclosed these in a statement titled, ‘South-South assembly disrupted by emergency security meeting – Presidency’. Shehu explained that members of the Presidency’s delegation to the meeting were set to proceed to Port Harcourt until they were directed to stay back and attend the emergency security meeting presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   