The National Broadcasting Commission fined three television stations on Monday, saying they violated the broadcasting code in the coverage of the #EndSARS protest, what do you make of that sanction? It came to me first as a surprise in the sense that this is an unusual period. The code is there and there is a section for fines and sanction, but the event that took place was an unusual event, and so NBC should try as much as possible to put a human face to its decision. Rather than imposing a fine on them, it is better to warn them. Channels Television, Arise Television and African Independent Television were asked to pay N3m each. These are stations that their advert revenue has dropped for over six months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Some stations are even struggling to pay their staff because of that, where then would they get N3m? Let’s be careful so as not to tend towards over-regulation. What is the consequence if NBC insists? The consequence is that it could lead to unemployment if some of them have to let some staff go. The second point is that, yes, the NBC is a regulator, but it should try not to over-regulate. Regulation should have human face. Therefore, it’s an appeal to them to waive this fine and just give them warning and move on. The polity is hot now and there is no point heating it up some more. The media landscape is hot and the audience is anxious to know what is happening. They should know that any station that doesn’t carry that kind of news could be burnt down. I know of a station that was told to be churning out damaging information and failure to do that, they threatened to burn down the station. The owner had to close the station for a while. So, there should be a waiver for these three stations so we can let the sleeping dog lie. Like I said, it’s an unusual period, and so the NBC should put that into consideration. We should take things easy. If there is over-regulation, what is the impact of that on the broadcast media? There must be synergy between the operators and the regulator. The last time, I warned the regulators that they were becoming traders rather than an operator. They didn’t like it but that was the bottom line. These are privately-owned media houses, and there are so many interpretations and innuendos. That is why I’m pleading with the NBC to see reasons why they should waive the fine and just give them a warning. Is it right for the regulators to be the accuser and be the one to impose the levy without fair hearing, like the Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria said? There is a code guiding the practice and many of us and the media houses were part of those who made the code. There are three categories in dealing with violations of the code: Category 1 is warning; category 2 is fine; and category 3 is to close the station. But nobody can padlock the air, and the NBC cannot be part of those that want to padlock the air at this time. The NBC should call the stations and have a discussion with them on the issue. Don’t forget that these are privately-owned television stations and these are star television stations. What do you make of the allegation that the stations were sanctioned for broadcasting materials from unverified and unauthenticated sources? That was why I said it was an unusual time and the time for verification is so short and I’m not so sure that they didn’t verify. They would have verified, but not to the extent that the NBC would like. During that period, the time to double-check would have been too short and they had to play the role of being the trustee of public trust. They also had to remain the good and dependable members of the fourth estate of the realm and not members of the fourth estate of the wreck. They are not stations that want to wreck the institutions of the country. That is why I’m saying the NBC should call them to a table to resolve the issue once and for all. Given the allegation by the NBC that they broadcast unverified materials, the NBC has not told us whether they broadcast untrue or fake news as a result of that, or is that unnecessary? I have information that during that period, the NBC was sending unending signals to all the media houses. Thus, on one hand, the media houses were faced with the warnings from the NBC and on the other hand, they were faced with threats from hoodlums who were threatening to burn down their television houses. They were in-between two dangerous points; the NBC and the hoodlums, and I pity them. That is why the NBC should try to see that it was an unusual period and therefore it must be treated so. Some of their staff, like some editors who were supposed to make news judgement, were not even available as they were unable to make it to the office because of what was going on. So, when you see that kind of unusual happening, the NBC should be able to put that into consideration. Like I said, they don’t have the money to pay and if the NBC goes to the next category of sanction, it is closure, and the NBC cannot close any station at this period. It is going to be very difficult and that would be giving itself a bad name. They should be careful; the law is made for man, and not man for the law. Like I said, the NBC wants to be seen to be doing its job, but then it should be with human face. The NBC sanctioned Nigeria Info radio station some months ago over an unverified claim by a guest, why do we seem to be having a surge in fines in recent times unlike what we had in the past? I don’t know so much about the violation that Nigeria Info was accused of. The NBC must have warned them. However, it would be difficult for anyone to control fake news. Fake news is not new; it has been with us for about 129 years. However, it faded away but it was 2017 when Donald Trump became the President of the United States that he resurrected it and anything that wasn’t in his favour was termed fake news. My research tells me that there are about 35 countries that have passed legislation to control fake news but here it has not been successful, on one hand, by virtue of freedom of the press and then freedom of information. In a democracy, you cannot do that. The only thing you can do is to liaise with the service providers like Google, Facebook and the like; tell them what you want or don’t want. Nowadays, there are so many people who are involved in spreading fake news and they are not journalists. They practice what I call journalese and I call them information traffickers. They traffic falsehood and it is those who have very weak internal control mechanisms that would believe all they see on those social platforms. The owner of Facebook (Mark Zuckerberg) was in Nigeria some years ago and they asked him if he practised journalism and he said no. He only provided a platform for people to get information as fast as possible and at no cost. Some people who do these things claim they are practicing journalism and because they are not answerable to anyone, they don’t even have an editor; they do what they like. However, those platforms should not be called social media, they should be called social platforms; it’s an aberration to be calling them social media. They are not media but platforms. The Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has been told that it’s going to be difficult to abolish fake news and that what is important is that you can control it through the service providers, like Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc. And that is what is working, rather than going after registered media organisations. I also think that the lawmakers should be careful. Why do you say that? If they don’t do some unprintable things, people won’t accuse them of certain things. By any standard, Nigerian press remains the most outspoken; they may not be the best in Africa but they are the most outspoken and the policymakers understand that. The relationship between the media and the government should be that of ‘love me or leave me but don’t leave me alone’. In any democracy, that is supposed to be the relationship. They need each other to operate. Under Section 22, the Nigerian press has the constitutional obligation to make the government accountable to the people at all times. There is no other profession with that obligation in the constitution. On our part, it appears some of our members are not trying as much as possible to exploit that Freedom of Information Act. We are not using that provision enough to ask for information for public good. But in some instances, journalists and other citizens apply and some government agencies decline because they feel nothing would happen. What do you make of that? They should pursue it further. The law says you don’t need to disclose your reason as long as it is public record and it is for public good. If they decline then you go to court. We laboured hard for almost 12 years to get the bill passed. Thank God former President Goodluck Jonathan signed it towards the end of his tenure. On our part now, we have to test it. We should not give up and we should make them understand the role of the press. It is an aberration when they say we are partners. We cannot be partners, when you, as government, are covering up and as a journalist I’m asked to uncover. Therefore, we cannot be friends but we can remain loyal opponents. Our policymakers should understand that. When you look at the Anti-Social Media Bill, Hate Speech Bill and the sanctions imposed on the stations, there are people who believe that this government is trying to silence the people and the media, do you get that impression too? They cannot make it happen. It cannot be enforced. There are other laws they should be making for the survival of the country. Like I said, nobody can padlock the air. When you do that, you create more avenues for rumour and rumour is so powerful that it has a very powerful network and it has no identifiable social manager or anchor man or correspondent, yet it moves very fast. I said in my inaugural lecture sometime ago that it is either we are the fourth estate of the realm or the fourth estate of the wreck. But we have so many case studies to show that Nigerian journalists are members of the fourth estate of the realm because they cannot wreck their profession, they cannot wreck the institutions or their individual journalistic integrity. Although, there may be some of our watchdogs who didn’t watch well, it’s for the Nigeria Union of Journalists and particularly the Nigerian Guild of Editors to keep watch. Regardless of whether it would succeed or not, do you think the government is attempting to silence the people or gag the media? Yes, of course. It is for us now to educate them. We don’t have to go into a controversy over that. Some of them don’t even know the role of the press in a democratic society. They should understand that the press is the engine room that brings stability and development into democracy. You cannot gag the press; they are the trustees of public trust. If they (government) make an attempt, we need to educate them and not to fight with them. The lawmakers need to be educated. Nigerian journalists have outgrown that kind of threat. The executive seems to be the one fuelling the move, do you think it has to do with the President having military background or overzealous aides trying to impress him? It can be both, but again we have the obligation to educate them. They need education and they need to know that things have changed. They should be able to stabilise things and that would earn us respect in the committee of nations. When there was crisis in Mali we went there to preach democracy, but back home you cannot be trying to gag the press here. People have tried it but it never survived. So, we have to work together. The Minister of Information said during the defence of his ministry’s budget at the National Assembly a few days ago that we (Nigeria) have to regulate the social media so it doesn’t destroy us. How best do we address those issues that come with social media? The lawmakers and policymakers should do the right thing. An adage says if there is no opening in the wall, the lizard won’t be able to penetrate. But when there is opening, even snakes would enter. That was why I said we need to educate them. Many of them do what they do out of ignorance. They should know you cannot gag the press in a democracy. Anytime I see Lai Mohammed, who is at the forefront of this, I tell him it can’t work but we should rather devise what is workable, which I hav mentioned earlier. There are people who believe that self regulation is the best, do you agree it will work? Self regulation is good. However, professional bodies should come out and regulate their members. That would be sustainable and have long-lasting result rather than government or impostors trying to regulate them. The social media helped the #EndSARS to gain traction before the youths eventually trooped to the streets, how would you assess that exercise and the events that followed it? According to the President, I agree that the original #EndSARS protesters did very well and everybody supported them. However, the mistake the protesters made was that such a protest was supposed to have a leader. If they didn’t, how could they negotiate? So, they should have come up with a leader or representative. Also, after five days, they should have given the President time to work on the outstanding issues, rather than allowing hoodlums to destabilise the process and vandalise properties. What is clear is that they made their point and everyone now understands the power of the social platforms and nobody would joke with those platforms. However, the youth should also calm down. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com