Excellence across sports and games is something that every country takes pride in. When we talk about African champions, we usually think of our best athletes and leading names in sports. Yet Africa has also produced some amazing grandmasters in what is actually considered a sport by the International Olympic Committee: chess. The story of chess as a sport The story of chess as a sport is not straightforward. While it is considered a sport by the International Olympic Committee, attempts to include it in the 2020 Olympic Games failed. However, chess enthusiasts are campaigning for the game to be included in the 2024 Olympic Games. The game was also included in the Asian Games, a regional sports tournament, both in 2006 and 2010. Beyond the assessment in the context of the Olympics, many fans argue that chess is a sport because of the intense mental agility required. Chess masters train for hours on end, participate in global tournaments and make a living out of their passion. While the game is not as popular across Africa as it is in Europe or Russia, the continent has managed to produce some great chess players. After all, chess is not the only popular strategy game that Africans have excelled in. Poker, which is widely regarded as the equivalent of chess when it comes to card games, has also seen great African players like Jarred Solomon and Raymond Rahme, both from South Africa. As online poker sites grow popular in South Africa, it seems that their legacy has started a trend in the country. Unlike chess, poker has many variants, including Texas Hold’em which is the most popular. Although poker also relies heavily on bluffing, at their core, both games require clever strategy, analytical thinking, and a deeper understanding of your opponent in order to win. The pioneers Amon Simutowe is one of the most recognizable chess players and is considered a trailblazer for Africans in the game. He is only the third person of African descent to rise to the rank of grandmaster in chess. The first one was Jamaican-American Maurice Ashley, who in 1999 became the first black person to reach the level of grandmaster and has been inducted in the US Chess Hall of Fame. The second was Swede Pontus Carlsson, who was adopted by a Swedish couple after his family died. Incidentally, his stepfather was involved with chess and even chaired the Swedish Chess Federation, and made sure to introduce Pontus to the game. Pontus Carlsson rose quickly through the ranks to attain the title of GM in 2007.  Amon grew up in the shadow of this precious and inspirational legacy. Born in Zambia in 1982, Amon was originally hoping to become a professional football player until his older brother, Solomon, introduced him to chess. From then on, Amon’s journey was nothing but sensational. In just four years after he started learning, he went on to win the Zambian national championship. He earned his International Master title in 1998 and won the 1999 African Junior Championship by scoring 12/13 as well as the 2000 one with a score of 11/11. His incredible gameplay led to his nickname, “The Zambezi Shark”. His achievements led to the award of the Grandmaster title in 2007 and to Amon winning the South African Open in 2009. The next generation Amon Simutowe may have been the first Grandmaster from sub-Saharan Africa, he is not the last. Kenny Solomon, born in 1979, became the second person from the region to rise to the ranks of Grandmaster in 2014, after winning the African Chess Championship. He also learned chess from his older brother, and he is the first person from South Africa to gain the GM title. In North Africa, Bassem Amin, born in 1988, is the most well-known player. He is widely considered to be the best African chess player and has had a stellar performance after he qualified for the GM title in 2006. While Bassem is the highest-rated player across Africa, North Africa seems to have developed a broader tradition in chess. Egyptians Adly Ahmed and El GindyEssam, as well as Algerian RizoukAimen and Tunisian Belhodja Slim also hold the coveted GM title.
While Africa remains underrepresented in the world of chess, the amazing achievements of renowned African Grandmasters could serve as inspiration for the next line of chess fans.