What is a mental disorder? A mental disorder is any condition that affects thinking, feelings, mood and behaviour. It may be occasional or long-lasting and can affect ability to function every day, relate with others and work well. Is it the same with mental illness? Yes. Both terms mean the same thing. When is an individual said to have a mental disorder? Possible mental illness can be identified by deviation, when symptoms are unusual with respect to the individual; intensity, when the symptoms are persistent; duration, when the symptoms are present for days to weeks to months or even years; and severity, when the symptoms are affecting the person and/or others, in terms of interpersonal relationships, social interactions and academic or occupational functioning. What are the general signs and symptoms of mental disorder? There are different kinds of mental disorders and their signs are also different. Some of the examples of signs of a mental disorder are persistent feelings of sadness, loss of interest in hobbies, poor concentration, feelings of worthlessness or hopelessness and persistent irritability. They also include excessive worry, withdrawal from social interaction, poor personal hygiene, sleep problems (reduced or excessive sleep), persistent unexplained medical symptoms and thoughts of death or dying. Other signs are talking excessively than before, seeing, hearing, smelling and tasting things that others don’t, drinking alcohol excessively and addiction or abuse of other drugs. What are the common types of mental disorders in Nigeria? The common types of mental disorders are anxiety disorders, mood disorders, such as depression, mania; bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia and delusional disorder; somatisation disorder and personality disorders. Which among these types are related to aggression and violence? Disorders, such as mania, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, delusional disorder, are related to aggression and violence. Some types of personality disorders, such as antisocial personality disorder, are commonly associated with aggression. This is because of the parts of the brain they affect and the symptoms that are present in them. How best can mental disorders be diagnosed? A mental disorder is best diagnosed by trained health personnel when symptoms that affect thought, emotions, behaviour and cognition observed in an individual meet the diagnostic criteria in terms of intensity, duration and severity. There were protests across Nigeria against brutality, including extrajudicial killings and torture of unarmed citizens by security agents, especially policemen. Can such behaviour be explained from the mental point of view? Yes. Mental health factors such as personality disorder, abnormal beliefs, being under the influence of psychoactive substances, etc. can be contributory. In addition, psychosocial problems also play a role. As an expert, does the quality of training given to security officers reflect in their conduct with the civil populace? Yes, it does. The quality of training received is one of the factors that influence their conduct. Can substance abuse and excessive alcohol consumption also contribute to such violent conducts? Yes. Substance abuse can contribute to such violent conducts because the substances act on the brain and can lead to disinhibition, loss of self control, poor judgment and others. How does stress affect the output of individuals in their professions? Just like in anybody else, stress, especially when prolonged, is associated with irritability and aggression which can affect professional output. Stress is also linked with excessive use of alcohol, cigarettes and other drugs of abuse which are known to be associated with aggression in some people. There have been calls on the Federal Government to carry out psychiatric tests on personnel of the Nigeria Police. How important is that to their conduct and output? Initial psychological evaluations and then periodic re-evaluations at specific intervals are important for any category of personnel that will have access to weapons and ammunition. A general screening can be done for everybody and then those with evidence of possible mental health challenges can then go for more extensive assessment. This is because the human resources, especially mental health professionals, for full evaluation of all personnel may not be available. What type of tests can be recommended for armed security personnel to enable them to relate professionally with unarmed civilians? I think the government should create a think-tank group that will include mental health professionals to identify specific mental health evaluations that are culturally relevant to address this. Such evaluation should include personality assessment, screening for drug abuse and assessment for the presence of mental health problems. How can such tests be carried out? Such tests can be carried out during recruitment and at specified periodic intervals. Digital technology can also be employed to aid such assessments. How best do you think officers of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad can be reformed? Reformation of disbanded SARS officers should include psychological, social and occupational reforms. Psychological reforms can involve counselling and other kinds of therapy as necessary for alleviation of mental health problems that are ongoing or those that may arise, including substance use problems, training on coping skills and others. Social reformation would include support and help with reintegration into society, handling stigma and discrimination by other members of society. Occupational reformation could be done by redeployment into other job descriptions that are individualised, depending on existing skills and qualifications of such officers. It also includes the provision of necessary training or retraining of others so they can have a sustainable means of income. How can people manage the trauma that stems from the sudden loss of one’s valuable property to theft as witnessed in the last couple of weeks in Lagos and others in the aftermath of the #EndSARS protests? Although the experience is traumatic, different people will react differently. This reaction can be from mild to severe. Some practical ways of handling it include talking about how they feel to loved ones or a therapist, using distraction, asking for help, avoiding excessive use of alcohol and avoiding the use of illicit drugs. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com