Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations on Thursday said over 9.8 million residents in 16 states of Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory were suffering from hunger. It said this in its October/November 2020 Cadre Harmonise Analysis for 16 States and the Federal Capital Territory of Nigeria, which was presented to stakeholders in Abuja. The report stated that Borno, Adamawa, Yobe, Benue, Gombe, Taraba, Katsina and Jigawa states were struggling with food insecurity and malnutrition. It listed Kano, Bauchi, Plateau, Kaduna, Kebbi, Sokoto, Niger and the FCT as other locations in Nigeria where residents suffered hunger. In his presentation of the report in Abuja, the FAO Representative in Nigeria and the ECOWAS, Fred Kafeero, noted that based on findings by his organisation, it was important and urgent for government to intervene in these states and the FCT. “The presentation of the results of the October/November 2020 Cadre Harmonise analysis for the 16 states and the FCT is such an important stage in determining our next actions and effective response in ensuring food security and nutrition in the country,” he said. Kafeero described the Cadre Harmonlse as a regional framework for consensual analysis of acute food and nutrition insecurity situations across West African countries. “Through this framework, areas of risk of malnourishment and undernourishment and the food insecure populations are identified,” he said. He said the aim of the exercise was to prevent food crisis by identifying the areas affected and the populations. The FAO representative stated that the analysis also proffered appropriate measures towards improved food and nutrition security, as well as livelihoods. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  