Adelani Adepegba, Matthew Ochei, Chima Azubuike and Adeyinka Adedipe FOLLOWING the expiration of the October 30, 2020 deadline handed down to 1,181 prisoners, who escaped from the Benin and Oko medium correctional centres to return, a source at one of the facilities has confirmed that 24 inmates have been brought back by their parents, lawyers and relations. The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, had ordered the return of the prisoners after thousands of hoodlums armed with AK-47 rifles and other weapons had under the guise of #EndSARS protest attacked the two correctional facilities in Benin and freed all the inmates. The source disclosed that as of October 30, 2020, Oko correctional centre had received 24 of the inmates who were escorted back by their parents, lawyers and relations. “We are expecting that more will return. Those we have received so far are inmates who have few months of their jail terms while the hardened and condemned inmates have yet to return. Majority of those out there are awaiting trials,” he stated. Earlier, a statement by the Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy to the Governor, Crusoe Osagie, had read, “The extension of the ultimatum is as a result of the positive response from the prisoners.” FCT Christian leaders condemn looting, demand stoppage of protest Meanwhile, Christian leaders in the Federal Capital Territory have condemned the looting and violence that ensued in Abuja, in the aftermath of the #EndSARS protests. A statement on Sunday by the Chief Press Secretary to the FCT Minister, Anthony Ogunleye, said this was part of the resolutions reached at a stakeholders’ meeting held with leaders of the Christian community on Friday by the FCT Administration. The statement titled: ‘FCT Christian leaders pledge commitment to peace,’ said the meeting, which was chaired by the FCT Minister, Muhammad Bello, had in attendance the Chairman of the FCT chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Dr Samson Jonah; the State House Chaplain, Pastor Seyi Malomo; and heads of the various Christian denominations in the FCT. READ ALSO: Five Ogun cultists arrested over death of 25-year-old The Christian leaders noted that the FCT had always been a home to all Nigerians, where residents could practise their faith without hindrance, adding that nothing should be allowed to overturn this. They pledged to explore “the power of the pulpit” to encourage their congregants to maintain peaceful co-existence with followers of other faiths in the FCT. Curfew: Delta youths demand release of arrested persons Youths in Delta State have demanded the release of all detained persons arrested during the curfew hours in the state. Speaking on behalf of the #EndSARS Movement at a town hall meeting in Asaba, a youth leader in the state, Harrison Gwamnishu, urged the governor to order the release of all detained persons arrested during curfew hours that were allegedly charged with arson and murder. The youths also called on expedite action on the creation of a five-member Police Complaints Committee to address complaints against the errant tactical squad of the police. He said, “We have six demands that the state government needs to expedite action on, especially the release of all detained persons arrested during curfew hours and were allegedly charged with arson and murder.” Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, who condemned the attitude of some youths for their flagrant disobedience of the curfew hours, promised to liaise with the police authority on the fresh demands. Gombe inaugurates panel on police brutality The Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya, on Saturday inaugurated a panel of inquiry with eight terms of reference aimed at unearthing human right violations by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, other Nigeria Police Force Units and security agencies. Explaining that the panel would sit for six months, the governor said, “The police and other security agencies are the only forces standing between our communities and anarchy. However, complaints of human rights abuses, extortion and extrajudicial killings have put a huge dent on the Nigeria Police Force.” ALSO READ: Hoodlums burn police post, vehicles in Anambra land dispute The panel is chaired by retired Justice Sa’ad Mohammed, while the acting Director of Public Prosecutions, Abdulsalam Kumo, will serve as the Secretary. The panel has nine other members. Edo panel begins sitting Tuesday Meanwhile, the panel of enquiry set up by the Edo State Government after the violence that erupted during the #EndSARS protest will begin sitting on Tuesday to look into some petitions already submitted by members of the public. The panel’s Secretary, Joyce Ugbodaga, told The PUNCH that though the panel had received petitions, they (petitions) were being collated to ensure that they were properly dealt with in the hope that whatever the panel came up with would be beneficial to the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 