Temiloluwa O’Peters The Ogun State Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment has said it would continue to create enabling environments for entrepreneurs in the fish value chain to address the 3.5m metric tonnes deficit the country is currently experiencing. The Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Kikelomo Longe, stated that the ministry would aid the entrepreneurs by facilitating more access to capital and organising capacity building programmes. According to a statement issued by the ministry on Wednesday, she said this while declaring open the state’s second fish fair themed, ‘The relevance of fish production and processing in increasing the GDP and alleviating unemployment in Nigeria’ in Abeokuta. At the event organised by the Ogun State Chambers of Commerce Industry, Mines and Agriculture, Longe remarked that the ministry would continue to support entrepreneurs to ensure the country exceeded its current 1.1m metric tonnes of fish production. She stressed that the output of the country’s 12m fish farmers had to be improved as part of efforts to ensure food sufficiency. “The ministry would continue to improve the business environment to support more fish farmers and entrepreneurs so as to ensure the 3.5m metric tonnes fish deficit is addressed,” Longe said. The commissioner added that more entrepreneurs in the fish value chain also needed to embrace processing, noting that it would further enhance the value of their produce as well as increase the product life. She called on the entrepreneurs to take advantage of the OGSG-BOI loan, which was available at single digit interest rate, to boost their fish farming and processing business. She also urged Nigerians to continue to consume food produced in the country, stating that it would help create more jobs, alleviate poverty, strengthen the naira and help the economy recover faster from the negative effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. Also speaking, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Dr Adeola Odedina, said the state, as the foremost fish producer in West Africa, needed to fully harness its fish value chain in order to increase Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product and alleviate unemployment in the country. Earlier in his welcome address, the President, Ogun State Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, Alhaji Wasiu Olaleye, noted that the second edition of the fish fair in the state was organised to be a catalyst for economic growth. He emphasised that addressing the loss of billions of dollars spent yearly on importation of fish produce would address unemployment as well as eradicate poverty. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com