If there is any indication that the goose of the suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, might have been cooked and perhaps served, it is the recommendation by the Justice Ayo Salami panel that the Federal Government should look outside the police for the headship of the anti-graft agency. This would probably signpost the new reality at the EFCC. It may also mark the next chapter of Magu’s woes as can be deduced from the timing of the summons sent to him by the Code of Conduct Bureau. In a letter dated November 2, 2020, signed by SP Gwimi, CCB’s director of intelligence, investigation and monitoring, Magu was asked to come along with documents of his assets. “The Bureau is investigating a case of the alleged breach of Code of Conduct for Public Officer against Mr Ibrahim Mustapha Magu, the former Acting Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,” the letter read. Reports said the CCB might file charges against Magu if he failed to respond to the summons. There are fears he may be given the same treatment reserved for officials who fell out of the good graces of those in power. The case of the sacked former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, comes to mind. But if Magu is still nursing the hope that the tide may turn in his favour, he would need more than more prayers to make it happen. The ominous tone of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), while receiving the final report of the panel, did not show that Magu could bank on fair wind to a safe harbour. His arrest, detention and subsequent suspension from office despite his zeal to please the authorities may be signs of worse things to come. Speaking while receiving the report of the panel headed by Salami, Buhari stated that his administration would cut off any stream that supported the growth of corruption. “It was in response to the serious allegations against the EFCC that I set up a panel headed by the Honourable Justice Isa Ayo Salami, retired President of the Court of Appeal, via an Instrument dated 3rd July 2020 pursuant to the Tribunals of Inquiry Act (Cap T21, LFN, 2004),” he said. The President said though there was corruption at many levels of government, and nearly every stratum of our society, “the stark reality of widespread corruption becomes poignant when allegations of corruption touch on the leadership of an institution set up by law to coordinate and enforce all economic and financial crimes. It is an abomination that strikes at the root, and undermines the government’s anti-corruption programme.” Many are still pondering over what led to the fall of the ‘mighty’ Magu, the poster child of the Buhari anti-corruption war; the one affectionately described as the anti-graft czar by the public relations guys at the EFCC. A lot of ink had been expended on his sour relationship with the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), who was fingered as the person behind Magu’s travails. It is widely held that the disagreement over assets disposal was one of the basis of their fight. Critics believe that the foundation of Magu’s tenure was built on quicksand in view of his inability to secure the confirmation of the National Assembly twice. The lawmakers had hinged their decision on a report by the Department of State Services accusing the former EFCC boss of corruption, and other undisclosed issues. The Senate, while rejecting Magu the second time, said it would no longer consider him if his name was sent again by the president. Magu tried to dispel the blot on his integrity, but the senators refused to yield position. Shedding light on their decision, the President of the eight Senate, Bukola Saraki, said contrary to insinuations, the Senate had no pre-meditated plan to reject the ex-EFCC chairman. Apparently, Buhari and his deputy, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, did not believe the DSS report which scuttled Magu’s confirmation. For reasons best known to them, they chose to swim or sink with Magu instead of presenting a new candidate. Citing section 171, the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had argued that “there was no need in the first place to have presented Mr Magu for confirmation.” A member of the Centre for Liberty, Ralph Adebayo, said three things defined Magu’s tenure, stressing that he came to the office with an alleged  stain on his integrity while also engaging in profiling of young people. “He was an illegitimate leader, he failed to secure the National Assembly approval; he was accused of engaging in corrupt activities. The pattern of political witch hunt was consistent under him and this led the EFCC astray,” the human rights crusader observed. Adebayo said the commission could be repositioned by ensuring it follows due process in its operations and activities. Speaking to journalists and activists in April 2017, Osinbajo noted that Magu enjoyed his confidence and that of the president. “I’m fully in support of Magu as the EFCC Chairman just as the president is,” he stated. It is difficult to know when Magu lost the confidence of the Presidency which he had enjoyed for five unbroken years. Analysts point out that Magu lost his job the day the AGF submitted his 22 allegations against him to the President. While the police commissioner was busy attending meetings and revealing details of ongoing investigations to select reporters, his enemies were plotting his downfall. Assessing his tenure, a lawyer, Chief Kayode Ajulo, observed that Magu failed to act in accordance with the law, noting that he spat on court orders and did not align with the statute that established the EFCC. He said, “Irrespective of what he has achieved, once he chose to jettison the statutes and the provisions, then, I believe he is a failure; a failure in the sense that he was so crude, very crude. “Court rulings were disobeyed; you see violations of people’s rights. He should have even emulated what is being done by the ICPC headed by Prof Bolaji Owasanoye; that is an agency that adheres to the rule of law. Unfortunately, Magu turned everything upside down.” Another lawyer, Victor Giwa, believes that “Magu fought corruption and that’s the main issue he had. It is on record that he had more convictions than the previous chairmen put together.” Weighing in, a lawyer and activist, Deji Ajare, said the EFCC must be reformed for performance and service delivery, noting that the government needed to look beyond the security agencies for the next chairman of the commission. He stated, “If the EFCC is to efficiently and effectively carry out its mandate, then, it must be reformed. Such reforms must include the amendment of its Act, particularly as it relates to the appointment of the chairman of the commission. “It is unconscionable that the chairman would be appointed by the President who heads the executive which constitutes the bulk of the people the EFCC is supposed to beam its searchlight on. It is not something that permits for the independence of the EFCC.” The activist also said the agency must begin to improve on its investigative and prosecutorial capacity “because the number of cases that have been lost as a result of sloppy investigation and prosecution is high.” “I think it is also important that the EFCC establishes a strong internal mechanism to monitor the activities of its staff members. It is common knowledge that a lot of the staff members are compromised,” he added. In his view, a legal practitioner, Kokibe Sanami, suggested that the EFCC should be headed by either a patriotic lawyer, accountant or journalist with managerial skills. On what should be done to protect the agency against political pressure and control, Sanami stated, “This requires taking the agency completely outside the control of the Presidency. This means the establishment Act should be amended to make the commission independent.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 