Nike Popoola Unity Bank Plc has recorded gross earnings of N33.91bn for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and a 44 per cent asset growth during the period. A review of the unaudited Q3 2020 results released to the Nigerian Stock Exchange showed that the gross earnings of N33.91bn represented an eight per cent increase from the N31.26bn recorded in the same period in 2019. The lender’s total assets rose significantly to N420.87bn in the nine-month period from N293.05bn in the corresponding period of 2019. The bank grew its profit before tax to N1.71bn from N1.61bn in 2019, and profit after tax to N1.57bn from N1.48bn. The bank said in a statement that the performance came on the heels of the unmitigated impact of the global pandemic on the economy, which it said lingered throughout the quarter with its attendant headwinds that slowed down economic activities. It grew its customers’ deposit to N332.36bn from N257.69bn for the same period in 2019. Commenting on the result, Unity Bank’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mrs Tomi Somefun, welcomed the steady growth of the balance sheet, especially from both assets and liability side of the business and across key performance indices. She said this had had sustained impact on the bottom-line, “even as the bank continues to innovate in its e-business product bouquet to target and support value chain business with robust technology and thus diversify its earnings base.” Somefun said, “One of the areas that will define our strategic direction going forward is investment in alternative channels, leveraging further deployment of resources in technology. “COVID-19 gave us a chance to test the integrity and scalability of our technology, the IT infrastructure, and the electronic banking channels, and provided us an opportunity to see where we needed to improve and strengthen, knowing that the future of sustainable banking business is in alternative channels.” The bank said the performance could also be attributable to its growing brand profile and leadership in agribusiness, especially having provided loans and financing to over one million smallholder farmers. It said, “During the period under review, the bank enhanced and deepened its collaboration and partnership with major commodity associations including the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, the Maize Farmers Association of Nigeria and the National Cotton Association of Nigeria to finance over 400 smallholder farmers’ crop production with its overall strategic intent of fostering food security, employment generation and aggregate economic welfare of citizens across the value chains.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com       