Business continuity encompasses a defined series of planning and preparatory activities which are intended to ensure that an organisation’s critical business functions remain afloat in the face of serious incidents or disasters that might have otherwise posed serious threat to existence of the organization. The relationship between business continuity and risk management is symbiotic. Depending on the organisation, there might be an existing enterprise risk management framework, or it could be a part of the business continuity plan. Either way, we need to understand perfectly how to go about it and what tools to adopt in ensuring you stay in business despite potential economic disruptions or a disaster. For any Medium or Small Micro Enterprise owner (MSME), the recent cases of businesses subjected vandalism, looting and arson in several cities across the country must have been a horrific experience, especially for those who were affected. In a nation where adoption of risk management structures is very low, losing goods, properties, and assets worth billions of naira to hoodlums who unleashed mayhem on people and businesses must be nothing short of financial and mental trauma. This is in addition to the economic downside some of these businesses experienced earlier, during the Covid-19 lockdown. There is a good chance that at some point, no matter how careful you are, your business might be impacted by the unforeseen. These incidences come in different forms. Natural disasters; earthquakes, Storm, Tempest, flood, and a virus outbreak such as the Coronavirus pandemic. Also, man-made disasters such as terrorist or criminal acts, riot, accident, and technology or equipment failures. These events can happen just as suddenly as natural disasters, delivering severe blows that can incapacitate businesses. Regardless of what causes a disaster, you would still be responsible for the outcome. So, it is necessary to understand how to protect your business from disasters. It could take weeks, months, and potentially, even years for your business to get back up and running again after such upheaval if you fail to proactively plan. So, how do you go about this? Plan: Creating a risk management plan is like developing a road map. When the time comes to make use of this map, you will be able to conveniently follow the steps you have already outlined. Without a roadmap like this, you might be moving blind, trying to figure things amid the ongoing chaos. While having a plan is crucial, knowing the right tools to use is of utmost importance. An insurance policy should be a priority tool in any risk management plan. It is the smartest way to prepare for the unexpected, and also a means of wealth creation. Administer: The victims of the massive destruction that happened in the past weeks who have insurance policies with a Strike, Riot, and Civil Commotion (SRCC) cover extension will easily contact their insurance companies to lodge their claims and be compensated duly. Now, imagine what business owners who do not have a comprehensive plan such as the SRCC, are currently going through. Recover: Insurance will hasten your recovery process so your business can bounce back in no time. Leadway Assurance, a foremost insurer with five decades of insuring happiness in the lives of individuals and their businesses, has urged its clients who were victims of the disaster to come forward to lodge their claims. This is in fulfilment of their customer-centric ethos and corporate core values. As we empathise with victims of these recent incidences, we cannot negate the harsh truth that empathy is not enough to protect businesses from the inevitable, only the right, proactive decision to get a policy cover can. If you are one of our policyholders and have been affected by this civil unrest, we enjoin you to reach out to our customer service executives via our virtual communication channels; telephone – 012800700, our social media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from any of our experienced insurance advisors by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me. 