John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party has cautioned Nigerians against falling for the ruling All Progressives Congress in the 2023 presidential election. According to the opposition party, the APC has failed in governance and in the management of its affairs. The opposition party said Friday’s visit by serving APC governors to the Abuja residence of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan was a confirmation and acknowledgement that Nigeria was better managed under a PDP-led administration. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘APC Governors’ Visit To Jonathan Affirms Nigeria is Better With PDP,’ signed by the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, on Sunday. Ologbondiyan said, “The PDP, therefore, receives the visit by APC governors as an apology by the APC to our party and Nigerians over the lies, beguilements and other irresponsible allegations deployed by the APC to grab power, only to lead our nation on a journey to nowhere. “We, therefore, caution Nigerians to be watchful of the antics of the APC that have failed in governance and the management of its own affairs.” The PUNCH had reported that the Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, on Friday, led APC chieftains including governors on a visit to Jonathan at his Abuja residence, to felicitate with him over his 63rd birthday. Buni, who is the Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, was accompanied on the visit by Governors Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), David Umahi (Ebonyi), among others. The PDP statement read in part, “The visit by governors elected on the platform of the APC to former President Goodluck Jonathan, has further affirmed that Nigeria, as a nation, is better under the governance of the PDP. “The visit, which is a clear endorsement of the acceptability of the PDP administration, also indicates that the APC, in 2015, only created artificial symbols of misgovernance, corruption and other alleged misgivings just to discredit our party and grab the levers of power to achieve their selfish desires. “It is evident that the Jonathan administration succeeded in office basically because our party understands the nuances of our nation, which we translated into people-oriented policies and programmes, in line with the manifesto of our party, to make life comfortable for Nigerians. “This visit to Jonathan by the APC governors is a direct acceptance of the successes recorded by our party in building a strong nation with a virile economy that was rated as one of the fastest-growing economies of the world.”