Olaleye Aluko A firm, Tetra Pak, has said it is committed to ensuring  food and safety of the people in Nigeria and West Africa, by utilising renewable energy and recycling resources. The food processing firm said in a statement  that it was  focused on leading with “low carbon circular economy solutions, focusing on increasing the use of responsibly sourced renewable materials, reducing the water and energy usage of equipment, and increasing capacity to recycle used beverage cartons.” The Managing Director,  Tetra Pak Nigeria, Aruna Oshiokamele, noted that the firm had made progress in protecting food, people and futures over the last year. He said, “The pandemic has changed how we live and work, giving even deeper meaning to our promise to protect what is good. Now more than ever, we remain steadfast in our commitment to protect food, protect people and protect the future of the planet. “In West Africa, our annual school recycling project reaching over 10,000 children was a huge success last year and we plan to double this number next year and that aims to raise awareness on the importance of having a clean environment and encourage recycling. “There are several other initiatives at different stages of finalisation and we will be able to report on the implementation progress during our next report. “At Tetra Pak, our approach to sustainability encompasses our entire value chain – including the environmental, social and economic challenges we face. From our School Feeding Programmes to our circular economy commitments, to our Diversity and Inclusion initiatives, we constantly strive towards safeguarding our own employees and supporting communities where we operate, and protecting the future of our planet and the long-term success of our customers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 