Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Power distribution companies have commenced the implementation of the revised electricity tariff that was jointly agreed upon by organised labour and the Federal Government. In an exclusive report in Sunday PUNCH, the Nigeria Labour Congress stated that the Federal Government would not revert to the September 1, 2020 service reflective tariff that led to widespread outcry across the country. Deputy President, NLC, who doubles as General Secretary, National Union of Electricity Employees, Joe Ajaero, told our correspondent that the September 1, 2020 hike in tariff had been reviewed downwards in most categories. Ajaero said, “If you watch the new template, for customers in Bands A and B, there was a reduction of 10 per cent and 10.5 per cent respectively. For those in Band C, there is a 31 per cent reduction.” “Those in Bands D and E were not increased at all. “NERC is not reverting to the tariff that led to the outcry, rather it would commence the implementation of these adjustments that were done.” Confirming the adjustment, which led to a revised tariff, the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company announced on Sunday that with effect from November 1, 2020, it effected the revised service reflective tariff. The AEDC said the revised tariff was approved by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission. In the announcement, which was seen by our correspondent, the power firm said, “Customers on the pre-paid platform will be the first to experience the revised tariff when they vend from Sunday, November 1, 2020. “The revised tariff will reflect in the bills for customers on the postpaid platform when they receive their electricity bill.” It added, “The tariff is divided into five bands and based on hours of supply to the customers. While customers on Bands D and E have their tariff frozen, those on Bands A, B and C will see some level of reduction in their tariff as they vend.” The power firm assured its customers that it would, in line with the spirit and letter of the service reflective tariff, ensure that all customers receive quality service. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 