Friday Olokor, Abuja A former Pro-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Dr Wale Babalakin (SAN), has faulted the claim by the Federal Government that the UNILAG Governing Council chaired by him was dissolved following the crisis in the institution which led to the sacking and reinstatement of the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe. While advising the government to update its records because of “an obvious error,” Babalakin said the governing council thatwas dissolved was not the one chaired by him since he had resigned two months ago and an acting chairman appointed. Babalakin had, in his resignation letter in September 2020 to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Dama, said there were too many vested interests in UNILAG case, who were not addressing the issues objectively. Babalakin in a statement by his Media Adviser and Group Corporate Affairs Manager, Resort International Limited, Mikail Mumuni, reacted to last Wednesday statement by the Director of Press and Public Relations in the Federal Ministry of Education, Ben Bem Goong. Goong in the statement had said “the Governing Council of the University of Lagos Chaired by Dr B. O. Babalakin is hereby dissolved.” But Babalakin in his statement said, “Your office announced the dissolution of the Governing Council of the University of Lagos by a press release on Wednesday November 11, 2020, among others. “There is an obvious error in your press release. The Council that was dissolved could not have been the one chaired by Dr B.O. Babalakin (SAN), as you erroneously stated since he had resigned his appointment on 17th September, 2020. “This is at least two months before your press release was made. If there was any Council to be dissolved at all, it must have been the one chaired by Mr. John Momoh. Please update your records accordingly. Thank You.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      