Ife Ogunfuwa The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, has pointed out that digital innovations and entrepreneurship are key to developing the digital economy in Nigeria. He stated this during the ministerial retreat organised for directorate cadre workers in Abuja. A statement issued by the Head, Press and Public Relations, Mrs Phil Oshodin, said the retreat themed ‘Performance Improvement and Service Delivery in the Era of Digital Economy’ held on Monday and Tuesday. Pantami charged the members of staff to challenge citizens to come up with innovative ideas that would proffer solutions to societal problems. “Today, we are a consuming nation and our economy will continue to suffer as long as we fail to integrate production in every sector of the economy. As a nation, we must excel in manufacturing and production, which is the way forward. Our day-to-day activities are to promote digital entrepreneurship and our target is to transform Nigeria into a leading digital economy,” the minister said. Pantami said that the ministry involved stakeholders in the ICT sector, political parties, governors, traditional institutions, and religious leaders in developing digital policies for the nation. He added that the policies were not about the present administration but long-term policies for the nation, which would outlive the administration. READ ALSO: Nigerians will soon know why Umahi left PDP —Ologbondiyan “We don’t think about the current administration in developing policies but our focus is about the country. We inherited documents from the previous administration which we implemented; we will also leave for the incoming administration because government is a continuum,” he said. He urged the management to work like a team and think analytically in order to break down complex information or comprehensive data into fundamental parts. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, Mr Musa Istifanus, pointed out that members of staff needed to think outside the box to find solutions to Nigeria’s problems, He stated that the society would blame the ministry if they failed to achieve digital economy objectives. Istifanus said the reason the members of staff did not achieve their objectives on time was the inability to follow rules and regulations in the system, adding that everybody must do the right things within available resources. In her presentation titled ‘Strategy for Improvement on Implementation of Effective Service Delivery’, the National Coordinator/Chief Executive Officer, SERVICOM, Mrs Nnenna Akajemeli, commended the management of the ministry for the retreat to enhance digital economy strategy. According to her, service delivery has been given priority by governments in both developed and developing nations. The Chairman of ICPC, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, represented by Mr Olayinka Aiyegbayo, in his paper titled “Ethics and Integrity Compliance in the Workplace” pointed out that accountability and transparency must be adopted and incorporated into the organisation’s culture to enhance good governance, efficiency, effectiveness, and productivity at the workplace.