Sodiq Oyeleke The Lagos State Chapter of the All Progressive Congress has faulted the Peoples Democratic Party for demnding the resignation of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu over violence in the state. The Lagos PDP in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Taofik Gani, had alleged that the governor was overwhelmed by the current challenges facing the state, asking him to resign. “This counseling is in good faith and for the overall interest of the state. If this state continues to experience the collapses in next 72 hours, it may suffer a declaration of state of emergency, a step that would likely deprive all. “The PDP is even more expedient for the governor to welcome the counsel to step aside now that the Nigerian Army has revealed him as the person who invited the soldiers to go and quell the Lekki protests. Obviously, Lagosians can no longer trust a governor who denies his conspiracy actions in government,” he said. Reacting, the Lagos APC in a statement by its spokesperson, Seye Oladejo, accused PDP in the state of planning “to govern Lagos state through the back door after persistent rejection at the polls remains a nightmare”. The APC publicity secretary said, “The call for resignation remains the wish of a frustrated opposition battling its permanent implosion. “The PDP in Lagos State that suddenly came to life in the past week owes the innocent members of the public detailed explanation about its ignominious and condemnable role in the mayhem. “The intermittent falsehood about governance in the state fed to the unsuspecting public fanned the ember of the unprecedented violence which has left in its wake sorrow, tears, and blood. “The daylight murder of police officers and the razing of several stations across the state has no doubt taken its toll on our security architecture, but the state government is working assiduously to provide temporary accommodation to forestall the breakdown of law and order. We are persuaded by the firm assurance of the governor to revamp our losses in no time.”