Deji Lambo Despite undergoing four different surgeries at the Critical Care Unit of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, Joy Eze, who was shot in the mouth by her police boyfriend, Eze Aiwansone, is still bedridden at the hospital. Her sister, Peculiar Eze, who stated this in a chat with PUNCH Metro on Tuesday, said Joy was in excruciating pain. She explained that the 37-year-old was being fed with a syringe, adding that whenever she felt the urge to pee, she used a pipe. While demanding justice, Peculiar said when the victim learnt that her fleeing boyfriend, Eze, had been arrested by the police, she expressed her happiness through tears. She said, “I got to know about this after receiving a call from Joy’s number and someone asked if I was her sister. I thought she lost her phone and the person found it, but when he asked if I was aware that Joy had been shot, I was shocked. I asked where she was and I was told LASUTH. “When I got there, I saw over 50 people; they were with Joy’s phone and they knew her password. Immediately I saw the impact of the bullet on her mouth, I fainted. “When I was stabilised, people opened her phone and showed me the picture of the person that she fingered to have shot her. Joy could not talk, but was using her hand to point at the same picture and the person was her boyfriend. “Immediately the incident was posted on Instagram, one Mr Onaja called from Abuja and said since he saw the post, he had not got himself. He offered to assist in appealing to Nigerians for help. “He requested Joy’s bank account and from then, people started sending us money and that is how we have been able to pay her bills. She has done four surgeries and we have spent over N8m on her treatment at LASUTH. We still need more assistance because we were told at the hospital that it is until she gets on her feet that they will know the kind of surgery to do for her next.” Peculiar, who said her sister was a victim of police brutality, urged the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, to financially support Joy’s treatment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     