There’s plenty of football left to be played in Europa League, with half the group stage remaining to be played in the coming three weeks. English clubs, Arsenal and Leicester City, have a chance to advance to the knock-out stage of the Europa League on Thursday evening. Arsenal are away at Norwegian club Molde, while Leicester City travel to Braga and both will be assured of advancing to the next round with a victory on Thursday. All Europa League matches will be shown live and exclusive on StarTimes across its full range of channels. There are multiple ways to watch the matches. If you already have StarTimes decoder, you can link three mobile devices to your smartcard numbers and share the excitement with family and friends at no extra charge. So download StarTimes ON app to enjoy all amazing content on StarTimes. If you are not a StarTimes subscriber, don’t stress. You can stream all live sports live on StarTimes ON app at just N400 weekly or N1600 monthly for Sports VIP subscription. It gives you access to all sports content like Europa League, La Liga, Emirates FA Cup, UEFA Nations League, Copa Del Rey, Copa Italia and NBA (basketball) as well as ESPN 1 and 2 channels. You can also watch live combat sports like mixed martial arts, boxing and kickboxing, etc. For more entertainment, the Max VIP plan comes with over 70 TV channels and over 5000 video-on-demand content at a weekly cost of N800 or monthly cost of N2000. The plan provides quality entertainment channels dedicated to Nollywood, Hollywood, Bollywood, Filipino and Turkish Chinese movies and series. There are also several local and foreign movies, documentaries, news, music and video-on-demand (VOD) content which you can download and watch offline at your convenience. Click https://pjq57.app.goo.gl/2Jv2 to download StarTimes ON mobile app on your Google Play Store or IOS.   It’s simple to set-up but you can chat-up StarTimes team on this WhatsApp number, 0817-239-8696, for further assistance. But that’s not all the mobile app is useful for. Users can renew decoder subscription from the app too, using any of the available options on the app like MTN airtime, debit card or bank transfer. With this app, the next time you find yourself in a bus and you remember your favourite shows, you’ll just smile knowing that you have your decoder in your pocket.  