Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, on Wednesday said the Federal Government, through the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, was responding to yellow fever outbreak in Delta, Enugu and two other states. He said vaccination was ongoing in the affected states. Ehanire said this while answering questions from State House correspondents at the end of the weekly meeting of the Federal Executive Council presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said, “There was an outbreak that started in Delta State and was found in Enugu and then two other states making it a total of four states. The analysis we have done so far shows it is yellow fever. “So, the response has been going on from NCDC; vaccination is going on in all these areas.” He recalled that a few days ago, there was also a report from a member of the National Assembly over unexplained illnesses and deaths in his constituency. He said, “They have to collect samples, do tests and do some laboratory investigations before we are sure exactly what it is and what the cause is. “So, the response is going on automatically and we shall get result very soon.” Meanwhile, Ehanire and the Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, said they briefed the FEC on their interaction with stakeholders in their states as regards #ENDSARS protests as directed by the President. While Ehanire said he met with stakeholders in Edo and Delta States, Adamu said he did a similar thing in Jigawa and Sokoto States. The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said he updated the council on some ongoing projects, including the federal secretariat complexes in Gombe, Benue and Ekiti States among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   