Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigerian Electricity Management Service Agency on Wednesday obtained a certification from the Standard Organisation of Nigeria that further empowers NEMSA to enforce safety standards and recommendations in the power sector. The Managin Director, NEMSA, Peter Ewesor, who received the Quality Management System ISO 9001:2015 Certificate on behalf of his agency, stated that with the new certification, safety enforcement of measures across all arms of the power value chain would be heightened. He said, “The enforcement of safety standards and regulation, testing, inspection and certification is very important in growing the power industry of any nation anywhere in the world.” Ewesor stated that to align with the global practice in enforcement of technical standards and regulations, NEMSA embarked on improving its processes and procedures. “Based on this objective, NEMSA decided to subject its operations and activities to obtain the Quality Management System ISO 9001:2015 certification from the Standard Organisation of Nigeria, who has the mandate for QMS certification in Nigeria,” he said. Ewesor noted that the certification would give additional impetus to the vision of NEMSA to be a world class electrical agency that ensures standardisation, specification, quality and safety for the power sector. “The adoption of the QMS ISO 9001:2015 was a strategic decision for NEMSA and has impacted positively on our overall performance, providing a sound basis for sustainable development initiatives,” Ewesor said. He further noted that the agency trained 47 employees on the implementation of final audit course on quality management system in order to obtain the certification from SON. On his part, the Director-General of SON, Farouk Salem, said NEMSA had joined the privileged class of quality management certified and upgraded organisations in Nigeria. “I can tell you that under the new arrangement of procurement service in the country, no contractor would be offered contract without having as a minimum this ISO 9001:2015 statutory certification,” he said. Salem said the milestone achievement by NEMSA was worthy of emulation by service providers and agencies across the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 