Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The troops of Operation Fire Ball have reportedly killed 23 Boko Haram militants while an Improvised Explosive Device expert was captured alive during an encounter. The operatives also intercepted insurgents attempting to collect a ransom and rescued two women and three children abducted by the criminals and many other victims. The terrorists were said to have been killed by the troops. A statement on Tuesday by the acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brig. Gen. Bernard Onyeuko disclosed that six soldiers were injured during a firefight with the terrorists while a huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered. The statement was titled, ‘Operation Lafiya Dole: Update on the activities of troops of Operation Fire Ball from 1-24 November 2020.’ It read, “The following weapons were captured: four gun trucks; one fabricated vehicle Blinde Leger; two Anti-aircraft guns; one General Purpose Machine Gun; two PKT guns; eight AK47 rifles; two AK47 rifle magazines; one AK47 rifle cover and one dane gun.” Other recovered items include 18 rounds of 7.62 x 51mm; four rounds of Brownie Machine Gun ammunition; one Rocket Propelled Grenade Tube; one 36 hand grenade; 23 belted rounds of 7.62 x 54; one QJC extra barrel; 311 rounds of 7.62mm NATO ammunition (Linked); 511 rounds of PKT ammunition and eight rounds of light machine gun ammunition, among others. “Unfortunately, six gallant soldiers were wounded in action over the period. However, the wounded soldiers have since been evacuated to a military medical facility and are currently responding positively to treatment,” the statement noted. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Air Force jets have destroyed an Islamic State of West Africa Province logistics base and also neutralized several of their fighters in airstrikes conducted at Tumbun Rego on the fringes of Lake Chad in Borno State. The mission executed on November 22 by the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole was carried out by NAF fighter jets and helicopter gunships. Disclosing this in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, the Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj. Gen. John Enenche explained that intelligence reports had shown that the makeshift structures camouflaged under dense vegetation were being used by the terrorists as a hub for logistics items conveyed via the lake and its tributaries using trucks and motorcycles. The statement was titled, ‘Operation Lafiya Dole: Air Task Force knocks out ISWAP logistics base, neutralizes several fighters at Tumbun Rego in Borno State.’ It read, “The Air Task Force, therefore, dispatched Nigerian Air Force fighter jets and helicopter gunships to attack the location. Overhead the target area, a significant number of ISWAP elements were observed. “These were engaged in successive passes by the NAF attack aircraft resulting in the destruction of the terrorists’ structures as well as the killing of several of their fighters.”