When the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), presented the 2021 budget estimate of N13.08tn to the joint session of the National Assembly in October, one of the immediate reactions that greeted it was the amount budgeted for debt servicing – a whopping N3.124tn. The amount budgeted for the all-important capital expenditure was just a little higher, at N3.85tn, while a whopping N5.65tn was devoted to recurrent expenditure. It is even more worrisome that the proposed budget had about N5tn deficit, which would have to be taken care of through additional debt financing. Meanwhile, the precarious state of the economy became clearer on Tuesday when the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, disclosed at the National Assembly during her ministry’s budget defence that the country’s debt profile would rise to N38.68tn by December 2021. She said, “The total public debt stock comprising the external and home debts of the federal and state governments and the Federal Capital Territory stood at N31.01tn ($85.90bn) as of June 30, 2020. It is projected, based on existing approval, to rise to N32.51tn by December 31, 2020 and N38.68tn by December 31, 2021.” Even though the concern over this has been mounting, the minister’s comment implies that Nigeria would borrow N6.17tn in 2021. Key economists and stakeholders like the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Nigerian Economic Summit Group, Centre for Democracy and Development and popular economist, Mr Bismarck Rewane, the Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives, who is also a member of the Economic Advisory Council constituted by the President in 2019 have all expressed concern over the country’s rising debt. A Bloomberg report in 2019 indicated that Nigeria was the highest debtor nation to China, yet more had been borrowed and another $500m was still in the pipeline before the House of Representatives raised concerns over the sovereignty clause in the loan agreement. Having won gold among countries taking loans from China, in addition to its N3.96tn indebtedness to the World Bank and $3.4bn to the International Monetary Fund, among other lenders, the Federal Government has now approached Brazil for a fresh $1.2bn loan. Some people even argue that Nigeria takes loans as if borrowing is going out of fashion. The ruling All Progressives Congress and opposition Peoples Democratic Party have also been exchanging words over the issue. Speaking, the Finance Minister had said, at a webinar in July, “To achieve all our (developmental projects), we will have to keep mobilising external funding and seek debt relief. We continue to engage with the multilateral and donor agencies to access additional funding for crisis response, we seek moratorium from official partners for some of the loans that we have and support arrangements to secure commercial debt relief.” Meanwhile, from available evidence, Nigeria’s descent into more debts is not accidental; in fact one could say it’s a deliberate move. This is largely because the country’s recurrent expenditure has in recent history been getting the highest vote in the annual budget, to finance personnel costs, salaries, allowances and overheads by Ministries Departments and Agencies. Consequently, little is left for capital expenditure. Yet, despite the crushing impact of this tilted budgeting, there has been no deliberate move by the government to cut costs and free up money for capital development. Rather, the President after his inauguration for a second term created five more ministries and appointed 44 ministers, even though the constitution says there must be at least one minister from each state. In addition, the much publicised Steve Oransaye report that would have helped to cut costs has yet to be implemented. The states, most of which are responsible for the trillions owed, have not acted better; despite the dwindling revenue and rising debts, most governors have torrents of aides, branded special advisers/assistants and senior special advisers/ assistant. Likewise, local government chairmen or administrators, depending on what obtains in each state, seem to be on a spending spree too with little accountability. Interestingly, the President said in his speech during the budget presentation that the total revenue available to fund the 2021 Federal Budget is estimated at N7.886tn, but the bulk of this revenue goes into recurrent expenditure; the President said non-debt recurrent would gulp N5.65tn. Thus, the remaining N2.2tn from the revenue would then be augmented by borrowing to be able to service debts and fund capital expenditure. This means that while the country pays salaries, allowances and overheads with the bulk of its revenue, it borrows to service debts and fund infrastructure projects. Ironically, some Nigerians have argued that the deplorable state of infrastructure across the country does not justify the humongous debt being owed by the government at all levels. An economist, Mr Johnson Chukwu, believes that the available infrastructure may not be commensurate with the debt profile because part of the borrowed money went into consumption. He said, “Today, we are clearly in a precarious situation in the sense that our revenues are not enough to meet all our recurrent expenditure, including debt servicing, which is not good for any country. So, every year we borrow and part of the money is to service our recurrent expenditure, which is why that would not manifest in physical infrastructure.” Asked about the effect of the continued borrowing, he said, “If we keep borrowing, we would get to a point of debt unsustainability. As you continue to accumulate debts, you realise that debt service obligations would keep increasing to the point that you may not even have enough to meet those debt service obligations. The truth is that there is just a limit to what your sustainable debt can be. “I want to believe the government is conscious of that, which is why the President wants to go back to the Oransaye report and stop subsidising petroleum products in a bid to cut cost.” He said the current situation should compel the government to review its approach to funding the budget, adding that, “one of those things I have advocated is that we need to consider public-private partnership arrangement as means of funding commercially viable infrastructure, instead of the current model. As it stands today, government does not have the wherewithal to continue to fund it.” Speaking on the way out, he stressed that instead of creating more MDAs for political reasons, government should summon enough political will to implement the Oransaye report. He added, “Also, cut down on government bureaucracies; hands off private sector-oriented businesses. For instance, NNPC has a subsidiary that is into fuel marketing. NNPC has no business marketing fuel. Let the private sector do that. “Government has no business running four refineries that are not refining fuel. They have overheads while salaries, allowances and maybe bonuses are paid to the staff there. People are also being promoted in such a place that generates no economic value. We need to look into such waste.” Also, for the Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Dr Muda Yusuf, the keyword is equally sustainability, as he noted that the capacity to service the debts is waning by the day. He added, “The debt situation is evidently not sustainable. We are already in a situation where debt service obligations are almost surpassing the capital budget. Fiscal deficit is already crossing the threshold allowed by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Recurrent budget has been growing at a disturbing rate.” On the way out, he said, “Fixing the debt problem requires a dual approach. We need to seek revenue optimisation and cut expenditure. On these two counts, our performance is below par. The outlook for the economy is something to worry about. An increasing proportion of our revenue is being consumed by our debt obligations. This is surely not a good legacy to bequeath to future generations of Nigerians.” He said the situation was even more disturbing that about 80 per cent of government spending was going into recurrent expenditure. “Investment in infrastructure remains very low and weak infrastructure negatively impacts on productivity in the economy,” he added. To the Chief Executive Officer of Economic Associates, Dr Ayo Teriba, debt sustainability is also important. He stated that for a country to have debt to pay is not the problem but whether the debt is sustainable. He explained that the biggest economy in the world, United States, and other big economies like China, India and Brazil that Nigeria wants to take $1.2bn loan from have debts too, but that the debts do not pose a burden to them. He said, “There is no country in the world that has zero debt, so the issue of debt would always be there. The issue is whether the debt is sustainable or not. So, if you find Brazil giving you concessionary debt that doesn’t put interest burden on you, why not? “China owes more than $2tn in debt and Brazil owes billions of dollars in debt but it’s not a burden; they have reserves and foreign direct investment inflows. Last year, Brazil got $70bn FDI while China got $150bn and India got $40bn. “The important thing is for Nigeria to join the ranks of countries that are attracting equity investment into their national asset rather than debt. When countries attract such equity investment, it enables them to borrow more at lower rates. So, the issue of debt won’t go away, but the focus should be on debt sustainability.” In his response to concerns as to whether there are enough infrastructural projects to justify the country’s humongous debt over the years, Teriba explained that infrastructure alone does not constitute capital projects but that it includes other capital spending. Speaking on the way out, the expert said Nigeria is poor in revenue but rich in assets, adding that what has worked for the big economies is that they make their assets visible. Thus, he said Nigeria should focus more on how to attract equity to its assets. He added, “There are many things to spend money on, so we can’t say Nigeria shouldn’t borrow; we can only say borrow sustainably. I don’t know any country in the world that is as rich in built structure as Nigeria but the problem Nigeria has is that we don’t leverage our assets to raise money from them. “Britain relocated about a dozen of inner city prisons because they realised that it’s not wise to have prisons on commercial land. So, they announced a prison development programme and spent about £1.4bn to move all prisons out of London, Oxford to more economic locations and free the old prison locations for commercial use.” He said the site of the old Oxford prison now hosts a luxury hotel and the site where the female prison used to be is now to host luxury apartments, all of which would generate revenue. He added, “The United States has a programme for closing down military bases and turning them to different uses. In Nigeria, we have military barracks in Lagos at Victoria Island, Ikoyi and Ikeja; Mokola in Ibadan, Oyo State and Rukuba in Jos, Plateau State. All are prime commercial assets with huge market value. “The value of what we are using them for is far below their market value and that is why Nigeria is poor. If as a retiree, who no longer receives salary, has land in different places. The right thing to do is to turn to your asset and unlock cash from it, and that is what Nigeria is failing to do. That is what Brazil, India and China are doing. That is why they could attract so much FDI in one year. “Nigeria would unlock trillions of naira by just relocating those barracks to more economic places where urban congestion will not disturb the military activities. At Eko Atlantic, Lagos State is trying to reclaim land from the ocean, but beside the land they are reclaiming there is Bonny Camp that is not generating any revenue. That is the idea. “Government should call developers to relocate those barracks and develop those sites. You would be amazed by the amount they would be willing to inject into it. As part of the deal, the developers would also develop new ultramodern barracks somewhere in a free space that would be ideal for military purposes.” He pointed out that many of the projects Nigeria spent money on in the period of the oil boom are underexploited and idle. “In the period of the oil boom, we invested wastefully and acquired assets that we didn’t need and now they are idle and so you are not generating money from them,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 