John Alechenu, Abuja The Director General of the Progressives Governors’ Forum, Dr. Salihu Lukman, has attributed the crisis within the All Progressives Congress to the resistance of some powerful individuals to competition. He said this in a statement titled, “Nigerian Democratisation and Internal Party Contest for Leadership,” in Abuja, on Sunday. The PGF is the umbrella body of Governors elected on the platform of the APC. Lukman is head of the secretariat. He said, “Part of the challenge facing Nigerian politics today is the difficulty in institutionalising and mainstreaming political competition within our parties. “Most of our political leaders are highly resistant to competition. For them, competition should be mainly reduced to endorsement of their leadership and their decisions, including the leadership choices they make. “This reality has created a situation of permanent internal rebellion within our parties. Anyone, interested in contesting or competing for leadership in any of our parties, must be ready to organise rebellion, especially, if such an aspiring contestant is not part of the inner caucus of current leaders.” According to him, the role of political parties all over the world in facilitating the shift of power to the people (downwards) is quite remarkable. He stressed that, both within parties and at wider societal levels, considerable pressure from ordinary citizens is influencing the change of leaders, in most cases, as a result of the defeat of powerful individuals and political establishments. Lukeman explained that in most cases, leaders and political establishments, including parties become more prone to electoral defeats “when they resist or block internal pressures for leadership change.” The PGF DG, also pointed out that the inability of political interests to pay attention to issues of strengthening capacity of political institutions to facilitate leadership contests makes citizens to recklessly dismiss and condemn leaders with hardly any clear political demand requiring any response from our political leaders. He equally observed that party leaders continue on the political trajectory of intolerance, ignoring and blocking any demand or competition both within the party and at a wider political level. Lukman stressed the need to strengthen the capacity of institutional political structures to facilitate competition, especially around the emergence of political leaders, as a way out of the problem. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 