John Alechenu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party have again engaged in a war of words over the rescue of an American citizen by US troops. American Special Forces with assistance from Nigeria and Niger Republic, stormed a terrorist hideout in Sambisa Forest to rescue an American held against his will by terrorists on Nigerian soil. The PDP in a statement titled, “PDP Berates Buni’s APC For Politicizing Insecurity In the North,” signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbodiyan, in Abuja, on Monday, said, “Nigerians can recall how the APC deployed such unpatriotic penchant to politicize security issues to frustrate the rescue of the abducted Chibok girls in 2014, for partisan gains. “It is indeed unpardonable that the APC, which, during the 2015 election campaign, promised to promptly end insurgency, upon which it was handed the reign of power, is now shamelessly seeking to divert public attention from the worsened banditry, insurgency and unbridled ravaging of our citizens under President Muhammadu Buhari’s watch. READ ALSO: Shun gratification, be up-to-date, CJN tells new judges In response, the APC, in a statement titled, “Re: PDP’s Insensitive Plot To Gain Political Capital From National Security,” signed by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, said, “The APC will not be dragged into an exchange with the PDP in its plot to gain selfish and insensitive political capital from issues of national security. “As with the case of Saturday’s rescue of a kidnapped American citizen in Nigeria by U.S. special forces, combating terrorism and other emerging cross border crimes require international collaborations and assistance when necessary. “We don’t expect the PDP to understand this international best practice going by its evil penchant of diverting and sharing counter-insurgency funds to its political cronies and its criminal and negligent handling of the 2014 abduction of 276 Chibok schoolgirls while claiming a grand political conspiracy against it.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com