John Alechenu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress has said as a political party built on progressive ideas, it cannot renege on its campaign to restructure the nation in order to build a Nigeria of the dreams of our founding fathers. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Yekini Nabena said this in a telephone interview with our correspondent, in Abuja, on Monday. READ ALSO: Nigeria in distress, says PDP national chairman, Secondus He explained that the party was fully aware of the challenges and the failures of the current federal structure when it made the issue of restructuring one of its focal campaign promises long before the 2015 general elections. According to him, it was its commitment to fulfilling this commitment that it set up the Governor Nasir El-Rufai-led Committee on True Federalism which has submitted its report. Nabena said, “The committee made far reaching recommendations most of which will require legislative action such as an amendment to the constitution. “This report as I am speaking with you is part of the memoranda submitted to the National Assembly. “It is not true that we have abandoned restructuring, we can’t because doing so will be like denying ourselves, we cannot deny ourselves we are a progressive party.” Some of the recommendations made by the El-Rufai committee included devolution of powers to states by reducing the items on the exclusive legislative list and moving the same to the concurrent list. On police reforms for instance, the committee report read in part, “Item six, we have also moved it to the concurrent list. We are recommending that the police should be both federal and state.” In another development, the party leadership is likely to meet in Abuja, today (Tuesday), to deliberate on “very critical issues.” A source privy to the plans who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media, said, “We want to assess what we’ve achieved and what we need to put in place to move forward. We also have the issue of a timetable and committees to set up. We will take things one at a time because we still have to give a progress report to Mr. President and NEC (National Executive Council).” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 