Peter Dada and Gbenga Odogun Gunmen have kidnapped the wife of Mr Olugbenga Ale, the Chief of Staff to Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu. This happened while the state was mourning the death of the Olufon of Ifon, Oba Israel Adeusi, who was reportedly killed by some gunmen suspected to be kidnappers at Elegbeka area of Ose Local Government Area of the state on Thursday. Also, two staff members of Ajaokuta Steel Company Limited, resident on the premises of the steel plant in the Ajaokuta Local Government Area of Kogi State have been abducted by gunmen. It was gathered that Mrs Ale was kidnapped on Thursday night alongside her driver and one other person at Owen area, Idanre, along Ondo-Akure Expressway. A source, who confirmed the incident to our correspondent said, “I can confirm to you that the wife of the Chief of Staff was kidnapped last night (Thursday) and her whereabouts are not known yet and the kidnappers have not contacted the family. “I think she was coming from Lagos with a driver and two other people in the car. She was kidnapped along with the driver and one other person. Security men were in the forest last night searching for her.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Tee-Leo Ikoro, confirmed the incident, saying the command had begun to search for the victims. He said, “The Commissioner of Police has ordered all the police divisions in the area to go after the hoodlums with the assistance of the military and I hope that very soon we shall have good news from there.” Meanwhile, Akeredolu has ordered security agencies to fish out the killers of the first-class monarch. The governor in company with top government officials, who visited the spot where the monarch was killed, described the incident as a sad occurrence. The two workers of Ajaokuta Steel Company Limited kidnapped on Tuesday close to the company staff quarters known as Calabar quarters were simply identified as Austin and Prince. The incident, according to residents in the area, has since led to apprehension among workers in the steel plant quarters. It was gathered that the suspected kidnappers initially abducted three workers but released one based on health grounds. A family source told our correspondent on Friday that the kidnappers had called in, demanding N1.2m ransom. “Where will they get such an amount of money in this hard time? The kidnapped victims are just managing to feed themselves and their families. They are just using farming to support their jobs. With the recent development, many residents are now scared of going to their farms.” The Police Public Relations Officer in Kogi State, William Aya, said the command had not received official information about the incident. He however promised to get back to our correspondent but had yet to do so as of press time. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      