Joseph Olaoluwa Heads of maritime agencies have expressed shock at the level of destruction that took place at the corporate headquarters of the Nigerian Ports Authority trailing the recent #EndSARS protests in Lagos. Managing Director of the National Inland Waterways Authority, Dr. George Moghalu, who spoke on behalf of the chief executives condemned the destruction. A statement titled ‘Attack on NPA Headquarters: Heads of maritime agencies in deep shock’ released on Friday by NPA stressed that the level of destruction was a huge loss to the maritime community as a whole. Muoghalu was quoted to have said, “Seeing the level of destruction here first hand, we feel very sad about the turn of events. We are all in solidarity with the NPA management. This is a great loss to the entire country and we need to educate ourselves more that violence is not the best way to go about things.” Similarly, Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Dr Bashir Jamoh, lamented that the maritime industry was made to face this challenge despite still battling with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said port facilities were critical national assets that should be collectively protected. He said, “This is a sad event, especially, for our industry that is still battling with the COVID-19 pandemic. “Port operations are central to the activities of all the maritime agencies. “We are just lucky that this did not stop shipping operations because this would have negatively impacted or crippled the Nigerian economy.” The NIMASA boss commended the Managing Director of NPA, Ms. Hadiza Bala-Usman, for providing leadership at this trying time for the agency, noting that the Nigerian economy would have suffered considerably if the destruction had led to suspension of port operations. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  