John Alechenu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress, on Sunday asked the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, to close shop for failing to meet its financial obligations to disengaged staff. This was contained in a statement titled, “APC to PDP: Close shop if you can’t pay staff entitlements,” signed by the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena. Nabena said, “The APC receives as a rude shock that the former ruling People’s Democratic Party, can no longer pay entitlements of its National Secretariat staff as at when due despite Billions of Naira generated from the sales of nomination forms between 2019 general elections and recently in Edo and Ondo governorship elections.” He wondered if a political party which has failed to run its national secretariat could provide leadership for a nation as big as Nigeria especially at such a time as this. Nabena added, “Our current intervention is in respect of some Nigerians working at the National Secretariat of the PDP but got sacked recently illegally by the party. The number of staff sacked amount to 50 per cent. The sacked staff have already dragged the PDP to the National Industrial Court in suit no. NIC/ABJ/260/2020. “It will amount to wickedness and lack of empathy for the dying PDP to continue to deny its staff what legally belongs to them, hence PDP should rather close shop, bearing in mind the popular saying that “the labourers deserve their wages.” Responding, the PDP, in a statement titled: “Relinquish Power, Apply For Consultancy Job, PDP Lampoons APC,” signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said, the APC was desperate to divert public attention from its failures hence its attacks on the PDP. The statement read in part, “The APC is also desperate to divert attention from its wicked increase in the pump price of fuel to N170 per liter, the indicting revelations from the #EndSARS enquiry panels as well as Saturday’s abduction of children in Zaria, Kaduna state by gunmen, who had scaled up attack on Nigerians while the APC has abandoned governance to seek consultancy job in other political parties. “By launching this childish smear campaign against our party, the APC has exposed its mortal fear over the reorganized PDP, being dazed by our vibrant opposition as well as relentless exposing of its failures and  complicity of its leaders in humongous corruption in high places.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 