Grace Edema THE Academic Staff Union of Universities has said the National University Commission has the framework for warehousing the University Transparency Accountability Solution software. UTAS is the platform created by ASUU as an alternative to the Federal Government’s Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System. The Chairman of ASUU, Prof. Abiodun Ogunyemi, made this known in an interview with The PUNCH while reacting to the statement by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, that the Federal Government did not make provision for the procurement of UTAS hardware in the budget. Ngige had also claimed that if the software passed the integrity test being conducted by the Nigeria Information Technology Development Agency, the university teachers did not have the needed fund to procure the necessary hardware for its implementation. Ogunyemi said, “As for the so-called hardware and the issue about warehousing the software, I’m surprised that Senator Ngige has forgotten that we reached an understanding that NUC would provide the data centre. The commission already has a framework for doing so  through the NgREN.” Ogunyemi also expressed dissatisfaction at Ngige’s position that the integrity test being conducted on UTAS would take six to eight weeks. “We suspect that Senator Ngige was magnifying the issues to sway public opinion against ASUU. The truth is that the integrity test is already at an advanced stage. If all concerned are conscientious about it, the whole process of integrity test can be completed within the next one week. So, I only said three weeks to allow for bureaucratic bottlenecks that we see in the civil service.” ASUU is currently on strike in protest against IPISS and other issues in the university system.  Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 