Deji Lambo A yet-to-be-identified person has been shot dead during a clash involving Orimerunmu Boys and Asese Boys, in the Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State. The PUNCH gathered that the unrest occasioned by the #EndSARS demonstration in the state prompted the hoodlums to block the Asese area of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, where they reportedly demanded cash from motorists plying the axis to their destinations. It was learnt that a prominent man gave the hoodlums a huge sum of money but a fight was said to have broken out among the hoodlums. A resident, who simply identified himself as Seyi, told our correspondent that during the clash, one of the hoodlums was allegedly sustained bullet wounds and was taken to hospital for treatment, adding that another clash broke out when it was learnt that the injured victim died on Saturday. He said, “The hoodlums blocked the Asese area of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway during the #EndSARS unrest and were collecting money from motorists plying the expressway. But a popular man gave them a huge sum of money and that money caused a fight among the hoodlums. “One of the hoodlums was severely injured during the clash and was taken to the hospital. And for a while, we didn’t hear of the crisis until the injured person died on Saturday. They have been creating unrest in the area.” Footage in possession of our correspondent showed armed hoodlums engaging each other in a free-for-all along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, halting vehicular movements in the process. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said a manhunt had been launched for those responsible for the victim’s death, adding that normalcy had been restored in the area. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 