Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan THE Forum of Chairmen of Oyo State Local Governments has said the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission is not investigating its members over alleged diversion of funds. The forum, in a statement by its Chairman, who is also the Chairman of Ibadan South-East Local Government, Emmanuel Alawode, said contrary to a report in the media, the ICPC was currently investigating the purchase of excavators for the local government councils under the immediate past administration of the late Governor Abiola Ajimobi. Alawode specifically debunked media reports that the ICPC was investigating four council chairmen in the state over alleged diversion of funds from excavator services. Alawaode listed the chairmen mentioned in the report to include those of Ibadan North-West, Ramoni Adepoju; Ibadan South-West, Kehinde Akande; Ibadan North-East, Ibrahim Akintayo, and himself for Ibadan South-East. He said while the four chairmen were truly invited to the ICPC headquarters in Abuja, they were questioned on the purchase of excavators, which took place under the immediate past administration in the state. The statement read, “We promptly told the ICPC that the excavators were purchased by the immediate past government in Oyo State and that we (the current council chairmen) did not meet records of the purchase in our councils. “During the visit to Abuja, the chairmen were asked why it cost the previous government N75m to purchase each of the excavators when each of the machines should not cost more than N21m. “We told the ICPC that we were not there during the purchase of the excavators and that we didn’t meet any document concerning the purchase in the councils. Within two hours, we were done with our statements and we left the ICPC headquarters.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    