United Kingdom Trade Envoy to Nigeria, Helen Grant, says Nigeria is the fastest growing economy in Africa. Grant said this at the two-day Nigerian Diaspora Investment Summit organised by Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, in collaboration with Nigeria Diaspora Summit Initiative. The activity, which is the third edition, began on Saturday will end on Sunday. It has the theme, ‘Post-COVID-19 Economic Resurgence: Targeting Diaspora Investment’. A News Agency of Nigeria reports that Grant said the UK will strengthen trade relations with Nigeria. She said that her government was ready to educate, and also learn from Nigeria by enhancing the bilateral trade between both countries. She added the UK and Nigeria had so much that unites them, especially in the areas of culture and language, and stressed the need to build on such existing relations to bring about economic growth. She said that Nigeria was full of investment opportunities and potentials. “We look forward to coming to Nigeria to identify with viable businesses that the UK government could partner with Nigeria in generating real and long term benefits for both countries,” she said. Also speaking, Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Alhaji Zubairu Dada, applauded NiDCOM, NDSI and other collaborators for organising the activity targeted at bringing about constructive interface between Diaspora investors and business owners in the country. He emphasised that Nigerians in the Diaspora were potential resources in the areas of skills, experiences and resources which could be tapped into, in bringing about national development. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, who also spoke at the event, said that the Federal Government, through the Economic Sustainability Committee had launched the Economic Sustainability Plan. He said that the efforts were targeted toward actualising the recovery of the economy from the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that Nigerians in the Diaspora were key drivers of achieving the recovery growth plan. (NAN)