Sunday Aborisade, Abuja Factional Leader of the All Progressives Congress, in Zamfara State, Senator Kabiru Marafa, has said the APC national caretaker committee chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni, has a choice to either organise a national convention by December, or resign. The Buni-led committee was inaugurated in June, 2020 and saddled with the responsibility of reconciling aggrieved party members and to organise a national convention to elect a new set of leaders for the party within six months. This followed the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee by the party’s National Executive Committee. Speaking to journalists, in Abuja, on Sunday, Marafa advised the Yobe State governor not to stretch his luck. He said, “Many of us are aware that your appointment is unconstitutional, because Section 17 (iv) of our party’s constitution is very clear. “We only kept quiet because of the respect we have for Mr. President, and the belief that the party needs to open a new page. “Be informed that any action you take outside your primary mandate of organising a convention that will usher in a new set of executives will be null, void and of no effect whatsoever. You have up to December, to do the needful or we chase you out.” In what appears to be a response, the national caretaker committee in a statement titled: “APC: Governor Buni-Led Caretaker Committee Focused On Party Unity, Reconciliation,” signed by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, in Abuja, on Sunday, said the committee would not proceed into a convention with a divided house. The statement read in part, “The Governor Mai Mala Buni-led All Progressives Congress Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee is focused on achieving and sustaining true and lasting unity, peace and reconciliation across party ranks and ahead of the planned national convention of the party.” It added that it was important that the APC conducts its planned national convention to produce the party’s national leadership as a united house. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com