THE confirmation that the manufacturing sector contracted for the sixth straight month in October, dampened hopes of Nigeria making a quick economic recovery. The Central Bank of Nigeria Purchasing Managers’ Index reported declines in eight key production sub-sectors, thereby further worsening the high unemployment conundrum amid a flailing official response. Stimulating manufacturing, alongside the primary sectors of the economy, holds the key to job creation, export diversification and investment. It deserves urgent action. PMI, a monthly survey of supply chain managers across 14 industrial sectors, showed that only six sub-sectors reported expansion from the shutdown or near shutdown arising from COVID-19-induced measures. Eight, including the vibrant food, beverages and tobacco segment, contracted. Only three sub-sectors recorded growth in employment level, two were stagnant while the remaining nine tallied job losses. With a 27.1 per cent unemployment level and a recently restive youth population, this is bad news. To be sure, the global economy has taken a severe hit as the pandemic ravages both the strong and weak. Mono-product economies like Nigeria, already facing headwinds even before the meltdown, have been battered. Sluggish recovery from the recession of 2016/2017 gave way to a -6.1 contraction in GDP in the second quarter of 2020. Awaited Q3 reports are forecast to continue the trend thus triggering a second, potentially more devastating recession. The IMF sees a likely contraction in GDP by -4.3 per cent by year-end. The industrial sector, including mining, power, construction and manufacturing, declined by -12.05 per cent in Q2 compared to a 2.26 per cent growth in Q1, the National Bureau of Statistics reported. Manufacturing contributes just 8.82 per cent to GDP, while capacity utilisation, from 70-75 per cent in 1970-1980, now averages slightly above 40 per cent. In contrast, manufacturing contributes 15 per cent to South Africa’s GDP. The result: the country imported N2.7 trillion worth of manufactured goods and exported only N254.2 billion worth April to June this year. Manufacturing, the value-adding processing of raw materials or parts into finished goods using tools, human labour, machinery and chemical processing, is a major creator of jobs. Experts say its value as the secondary sector of the economy is enhanced by its linkages with the primary productive sector –agriculture, mining on the one hand and the tertiary sector or service sector — transport, distribution, logistics, wholesale and retailing and ICT on the other. It is therefore a key stimulator of investment, capital formation, innovation, job creation, poverty reduction and exports. No country in the modern era has transitioned from agro-dependency and poverty to high-income export-led status without a shift to industrialisation. That is the challenge for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), as he struggles to revive the economy. UNIDO described industrialisation as “the engine of fast growth” for the first 12 industrial economies from the UK to Japan. For developing countries like Nigeria, the OCP Policy Center, a Moroccan think tank, recommends effective leveraging of their agricultural, mining and human resources endowments to transit from low income, commodity-dependent economies to industry and services-based economies. It said, “In low-income countries, light manufacturing-with its low capital requirements, limited scale economies, readily available technology, and sales possibilities in domestic and international markets-retains potential as a springboard and the best hope to expand output, employment, productivity, and exports.” Ironically, Nigeria was once on track. In the immediate post-independence era like most developing countries, it adopted the import-substitution industrialisation strategy where local industries were to be built up, with subsidies, protective tariffs and credit. From a peak of 13.9 per cent in 1984, manufacturing’s share of GDP dropped to 4.0 per cent in 2002, according to the CBN. Manufacturing was the top magnet for FDI in the mid-1970s. The times are tough, but the handicaps can be overcome. First, power shortages that add over 40 per cent to costs need radical intervention. Multiple exchange rates particularly hurt manufacturers as they depend on imported raw materials, machinery and parts. There should be more effective measures to cement the linkages between agriculture, mining and transport to break the import dependence, create jobs and reduce poverty. Target areas of strength like Bangladesh and Indonesia did with textiles. Multiple taxes, fees and charges by the three tiers of government and insecurity add greatly to costs. The terrible state of the ports, their access roads, red tape and corruption, as well as poor network of roads, railways and waterways inhibit growth in the sector. Apart from the binding constraints of power, exchange rates and transport infrastructure, new emphasis should be placed on innovation and security. Like the Asian Tigers, there should be effective policies to stimulate the SMEs and start-ups: they contribute over 55 per cent of GDP and over 65 per cent of total employment in high-income countries, and over 60 per cent of GDP and 70 per cent of total employment in low-income countries. The executive orders to improve the ease of doing business should be faithfully implemented and a pragmatic review of the Nigerian Industrial Revolution Plan and other policy strategies undertaken. In today’s globalised economy where supply chains and markets combine with technology to blur international borders, Nigeria should move fast to create a vibrant manufacturing sector. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   