Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja A former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has faulted his former boss, ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo; former President Goodluck Jonathan and former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, for congratulating the United States President-elect, Joe Biden. Fani-Kayode, who is a staunch supporter of American President, Donald Trump, said it was wrong of them to have congratulated Biden when Trump was still challenging the victory in court. In a Facebook post, the former minister wrote, “I am dumbfounded by some Nigerian leaders who have also congratulated Biden including Muhammadu Buhari, Olusegun Obasanjo, Goodluck Jonathan, Abubakar Atiku, Bukola Saraki, Peter Obi and countless others. “This unnecessary fawning and belittling expression of love and support for their proffered candidate could at least have waited until the matter has been properly concluded. If Donald Trump eventually prevails and he is sworn in on January 20 for a second term there are going to be a lot of very red faces on the world stage.” Fani-Kayode also lambasted the leaders of Germany, Israel, the United Kingdom, Nigeria and others for congratulating Biden. He, however, hailed Russia, Mexico, Turkey, North Korea, China, Iran and others who had decided to wait until all controversies had been settled. “This is how foreign governments are meant to react to the unfolding and increasingly unsavoury events in America. Shame on all foreign leaders who have congratulated Biden on winning an election in which only the media has declared him as winner,” he wrote. Fani-Kayode said whether anyone wishes to accept it or not, the fact of the matter is that the election results have not been confirmed and the Electoral College had not formally met and declared the outcome of the poll. “Congratulating the candidate of a political party that may well have ruthlessly and corruptly rigged his way to what is likely to end up being a pyrrhic and short-lived victory is not in our nation’s interest, is not the way to enhance, strengthen, support and entrench democracy and does not speak well of those who have done so “Whether you support Biden or Trump, let us at least wait for the matter to be properly concluded and a winner officially declared by the relevant authorities before we start dishing out our congratulatory messages like confetti at a white wedding,” he wrote.