Nike Popoola The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria has said the tendency to borrow and recurrent budget deficit in the country can be addressed by increasing the tax net. The President, CITN, Olajumoke Simplice, said this during the third annual international academic conference on taxation, organised in collaboration with Igbinedion University, Edo State with the theme ‘Taxation, social contract and economic development’. In her speech obtained from the CITN on Monday, she said, “On the citizen’s part, the level of tax compliance is abysmally low such that revenues from taxation cannot fund development projects. “From available data from the Joint Tax Board, just about 13 per cent of our population are in the tax net. “This is not encouraging for any nation that desires to achieve development in the foreseeable future. “If we could ramp up the number of active taxpayers across all sectors, the recurring budget deficits and tendency to borrow to fund the budget will be adequately addressed.” On the governance side, she said, there was a glaring trust deficit between the citizens and the government. “They do not trust that the government would channel tax revenues for its intended purpose,” she said. The CITN said there was a need for both players in the social contract to play their part for the country to achieve economic development. The Chairman, Conference Organising Committee, Prof. Isa Dandago, said the conference was one of the initiatives of the institute designed to give adequate opportunities to its members and non-members (especially those in the academic), to excel in the area of research and publication as they made reasonable contributions to knowledge in the field of taxation and other related disciplines. He said the academic conference served as a cost-effective alternative to the CITN members in the academic world as they used it to perfect their research and publication skills, enjoyed academic mentoring, earned credit points, and ensured their rapid progress on the academic ladder. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com       