Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has called ministries, departments and agencies to remit all Internally Generated Revenue due to the Federal Government coffers for proper funding of the 2021 budget. Chairman of the House Committee on Healthcare Services, Yusuf Sununu, made the call while addressing some MDAs at a budget defence session in Abuja on Monday. Sununu recalled that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had urged the National Assembly to assist the executive in compelling MDAs to remit IGR, stating that it was only through such remittances that the government could effectively finance its budget. The lawmaker said, “Let us also try to emphasise that revenues generated by MDAs are supposed to be remitted to the Federal Government in their right percentages.” Consequently, the committee dismissed the budgets proposed by four agencies for failing to provide records of 25 per cent remittance of their IGRs. The Medical Science Laboratory Council of Nigeria, the Radiographers Registration Council of Nigeria, the Nigeria Pharmaceutical Research Institute as well as the Community Health Practitioners Registration Board failed to meet the requirement and were dismissed. The Dental and Medical Council of Nigeria, on the other hand, was turned away due to the absence of its chief executive. The Nursing and Midwifery Registration Council and the Nigeria Institute of Medical Research, Yaba, Lagos, however, got a clean bill of health. The Registrar and Chief Executive Officer, Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria, Tosan Erhabor, had irked the lawmakers when he disclosed that the council’s IGR was used to offset the running cost. Erhabor had said, “The sum of N136m was generated so far this year but we are unable to remit the 25 per cent as laid down by the rules due to COVID-19 (pandemic), which led to putting on hold our inspection and accreditation of training courses from where more money comes in.” Members of the committee, however, disagreed, saying despite the pandemic, the shortfall in revenue generation should not have been recorded by all MDAs as the registrar reported. Sununu pointed out that the council, though hampered by the pandemic, should still have generated more revenue beyond what it declared.