Patrick Odey,Uyo THE Akwa Ibom Oil Producing Community Development Network has asked the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation to pay the sum of N16.4bn being compensation for oil spills in some communities in the state The demand was contained in a letter addressed to NNPC Managing Director and signed by the organisation’s lawyer, Mr N. A. Williams. The letter was copied Managing Director, Nigerian Petroleum Development Company Limited; the Managing Director, Sterling Oil Exploration & Energy Production Company Ltd; the Executive Secretary, National Human Rights Commission; the Manager, Cooperate Lands Management, and the Village Head, Ikot Ada Udo Community, Ikot Abasi. According to the letter, the organisation for many years has been demanding compensation from Shell Petroleum Development Company and other oil companies due to the negative effects of hydrocarbon pollution (oil spills, gas flaring and toxic waste dumping by Exxon Mobil and gas leakages/emissions from corked and uncorked wells, especially those belonging to SPDC Ibibio I oil spill at Ikot Ada Udo and elsewhere in the state. The letter recalled that “in the case of Ikot Ada Udo, SPDC Ibibio 1 oil spill incident first occurred in the year 1997. It re-occurred in 1999, 2004 and lasted till 2007 due to Ibibio 1 oil well head facility failure. “The spills resulted in the discharge of remarkable quantity of crude oil into the majorly rural farmlands and water bodies in Ikot Ada Udo and adjoining villages in Ikpa Nung Asang Clan in Ikot Abasi L.G.A, Ibiaku/Ukpum Minya Clans in Mkpat Enin L.G.A and Abak Midim in Oruk Anam L.G.A. “The spills drastically affected the ecosystem, wellbeing of the inhabitants and the environment. “Sequel to this unfavorable development, the community Attorney consulted an Accredited Estate Surveyors and Valuers who carried out valuation of the damages caused by the said spill/gas emissions which is in the sum of N4,136,484,000.00 only for Ikot Ada Udo. “The valuation for villages in Ikpa Nung Asang in Ikot Abasi L.G.A, Ukpum Minya/Ibiaku Clan in Mkpat Enin L.G.A and other SPDC’s host communities in Akwa Ibom State is N12,266,950,000.00 (Twelve Billion, Two Hundred and Sixty-Six Million, Nine Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira) only, totaling N16,403,434,000.00.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 