Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senator representing Anambra South in the National Assembly, Ifeanyi Ubah, has asked members of the state House of Assembly to probe Governor Willie Obiano, over the N25bn promissory notes he allegedly collected from the Debt Management Office. Ubah, who addressed journalists in Abuja on Sunday, also issued a seven-day ultimatum to the governor to address the people on the issue or risk legal action. The federal lawmaker vowed to petition the state lawmakers on the issue this week. He lamented that officials of the state government were still denying that Obiano collected the promissory notes despite overwhelming evidence that he had allegedly started trading with the document. Ubah said the N25bn was the payment due to Anambra State for the roads repaired by the administrations of former governors Chris Ngige and Peter Obi, on behalf of the Federal Government. He said, “The Anambra State House of Assembly should find out what exactly Obiano did with the monies. They should ask why Obiano, through Adinuba, was lying about this shameful activity. “What was so important that Obiano had to give up a whopping N8bn of money under such a terrible economy? “Why would Obiano, a banker, throw away N8bn and where is the balance now deployed to?” The state government had, last week, denied receiving a N25bn bond from the Debt Management Office, and alleged that Ubah was blackmailing Obiano by claiming that the bonds were raised without the knowledge of the National Assembly. The State Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr. Don Adinuba, said the reimbursement was recommended by the Senate after a public hearing on the debts owed the state for the road rehabilitation and reconstruction. The Anambra State Government further declared that the purposes for which the funds were deployed were stated clearly in the annual report pointing out that the money was neither a loan nor a bond. But Ubah, who distributed photocopies of the promissory notes to journalists in Abuja, insisted that Obiano had a case to answer because he had allegedly shortchanged the state to the tune of N8.8bn through his actions. He said the N25bn promissory notes were issued to the Anambra State Government by the DMO in 2018 and 2019. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com