Tessy Igomu A consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Dr. Tunde Oyeyinka, says women diagnosed with fibroid stand the chance of conceiving three to six months after surgery. Speaking with PUNCH Healthwise, Oyeyinka, a fellow of the West African College of Surgeons, said as long as the surgery is carried out by a certified heath expert, there is absolutely no reason for fertility not to be enhanced after the medical procedure. He, however, warned against seeking alternative sources for fibroid management, noting that such a step is capable of causing grievous harm to the womb. He said, “Fibroid surgery is supposed to help women improve their fertility and increase chances of conception. “Most people erroneously believe that once a woman that is yet to have a child undergoes fibroid operation, the chance of conception becomes limited. “However, what most specialists like me would say is that we don’t entertain such fear. “We are aware that many general practitioners carry out fibroid surgery. “What I would advise is for women to go to certified gynecologists, who are qualified to carry out such a procedure and are able to subsequently give appropriate follow-up treatments to help ensure that pregnancy occurs.” Oyeyinka described fibroid as abnormal growths of the muscles of the womb of which the exact cause is unknown. He noted that the predisposing risk factors include early onset of puberty, a family history of fibroids, and obesity, among others. The gynaecologist pointed out that most women with fibroid have additional causes of delayed conception that could include low sperm count on the part of the husband, or the woman having fibroid and hormonal imbalance at the same time. He, however, said the appropriate thing expected of a certified expert before booking a patient with fibroid for surgery would be to carry out all necessary investigations that have to do with ovulation and sperm production. “This is because the womb is just a sac where the baby comes to grow. The tube is where the pregnancy would occur and the ovaries are where the eggs would come from. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 