Olalekan Adetayo, Umar Muhammed and Peter Dada The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has said the nation’s security agencies must do more to end violence in the country. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement made available to journalists on Sunday, quoted the President as speaking while mourning the Nasarawa State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Philip Shekwo, whose lifeless body was found on Sunday a day after he was kidnapped. The statement was titled: ‘President Buhari condemns killing of Nasarawa State APC Chairman, Chief Shekwo’. The presidential aide further quoted Buhari as welcoming the decision of the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to send reinforcement to the state. The statement read, “President Muhammadu Buhari, on Sunday, deplored the killing of Chief Philip Shekwo, the Nasarawa State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, saying the nation’s security system must do more to end the incidents of violence in the country. “The President welcomed the decision of the Inspector-General of Police to send reinforcement of men and materials to the state. “The late APC Chairman was shot twice leading to his death. Police investigation is expected to determine if this was an assassination or kidnapping-related murder.” Shehu further quoted the President as commiserating with the family of the deceased. “His contribution towards strengthening the party in Nasarawa State will not be forgotten. May his soul rest in peace,” the President was further quoted as saying. The lifeless body of Shekwo, who was abducted on Saturday, was dumped a few metres from his residence in Bukan-Sidi, Lafia Local Government Area of the state. Investigation by The PUNCH revealed that the kidnappers, who came in large number with sophisticated weapons, stormed the victim’s residence around 10pm on Saturday night and whisked him away. It was gathered that the state governor, Mr Abdullahi Sule, had instructed the Commissioner of Police not to rest until Shekwo was released unhurt. The state Police Commissioner, Mr Bola Longe, confirmed the death of Shekwo on Sunday. Longe, who was at the residence of the deceased, said after intensive search operation, the body of Shekwo was found with bullet wounds. The police boss said the circumstances that led to the death of the APC chairman indicated that it was not kidnapping, but assassination. Apart from the state governor, the senator representing the Nasarawa South Senatorial Constituency in the Senate, Tanko Al-Makura; the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr Ibrahim Abdullahi-Balarabe; government officials, party faithful and sympathisers were in the house of the deceased to commiserate with the family. Sule in a statement signed his Chief Press Secretary, MrIbrahim Addra, on Sunday, said, “We received with great shock and bewilderment the killing of the Nasarawa State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Mr Philip Tatari Shekwo, in the hands of yet-to-be identified gunmen, who forcefully gained entrance into his residence last night,” the statement read in part. According to the governor, he is traumatised by this gruesome and inhuman act that has left him, Shekwo’s family members, the APC family and indeed all well meaning people shattered. “I will like to assure all that the perpetrators of this dastardly act will not go scot free. Investigations have already commenced by our security agents, who will do all it takes to hunt down these criminals and bring them to justice,” Sule was quoted as saying. Balarabe-Abdullahi also condoled with the state government, the APC family and the people of the state over the loss. The APC called on the police and other security operatives to fish out Shekwo’s murderers. A statement by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Yekini Nabena, described the incident as a dark day for the APC family and the citizens at large. The party condoled with the family of the party chairman, the governor and government of Nasarawa State, the State Working Committee and supporters over the shocking development. The statement further called for a thorough investigation by the police and other relevant security service to immediately fish out the sponsors and perpetrators of the crime and ensured that were made to face the full weight of the law. Meanwhile, the Ondo State chapter of the APC, on Sunday, condemned the murder of Nasarawa State Chairman of the party, Shekwo. The Chairman of the Ondo State chapter of the party, Mr Ade Adetimehin, described the killing as unforgivable wickedness. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 