John Alechenu, Abuja Supporters of the All Progressives Congress under the aegis of the Concerned APC Members, have said their opposition to the bid by the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker /Extra -Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, to embark on a fresh registration of members was based on “intelligence reports.” Spokesman for the group, Abdullahi Dauda, said this in a telephone interview, with The PUNCH, in Abuja, on Tuesday. The Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman, had last week described party members opposed to the registration exercise as “political bandits” who wanted the APC to remain in perpetual crisis for some sinister motives. However, the C-APC members claimed that information reaching them indicated that the caretaker committee was plotting to use the registration exercise to deregister party members who disagree with them. Dauda said, “We have intelligence. What is happening is that the party leadership is trying to act the kind of script the Peoples Democratic Party acted out so many years ago. If you recall, the then Vice President Atiku Abubakar, and senior members of the PDP, were systematically deregistered because of their disagreements with (President Olusegun) Obasanjo. “We are all living witnesses to the unceremonious sack of the elected Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee of our great party by forces who were resisting his reforms. We will be meeting very soon to take a position.” When asked if the group was still insisting on a national convention in December considering the announcement by the Independent National Electoral Commission that outstanding bye-elections will hold on December 5, Dauda said, “Nothing has changed.” However, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena, said, “The fears of members of this group are misplaced. It doesn’t make sense for us as a party who are looking for more Nigerians to join the progressive train to begin to pursue people out of the party.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      