’Femi Asu The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Power, Mr Chinyeaka Ohaa, has said the Federal Government will continue to support the growth of local meter manufacturers in the country. Ohaa noted that the Federal Government had launched an initiative to accelerate meter rollout in the power sector, saying the Central Bank of Nigeria had decided to fund the provision of six million meters. He said the government remained committed to encouraging local meter manufacturing, adding, “If you look at the new power policy, we say that 30 per cent of meters should have local content.” Speaking at the commencement of a free meter installation training programme organised by Momas Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company Limited at its facility in Ogun State, the permanent secretary lauded the Chairman, MEMMCOL, Mr Kola Balogun, for the initiative. “We are proud of him as a Nigerian who has invested for 30 years in the meter industry. I am going to report back what I have seen; it is amazing,” Ohaa said. He said the training programme would help to empower the participants and create many jobs in the country. Balogun said there was an urgent need to train more Nigerians on meter installation to complement government’s efforts towards bridging the metering gap in the power sector. The MEMMCOL boss said, “This is our own way of contributing our quota to ensure that the initiative is successful. We have decided to train selected number of graduates across all the six geopolitical zones in the country on metering technology through our Momas Metering School for free. “In addition to the training, we shall provide the trainees with kits; these will contain all the relevant tools for electricity meter installation. There will be enough jobs for the youths to do and we would also engage them in the execution of some of our projects.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 