John Alechenu, Abuja The Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/ Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress has dissolved the party’s Executive Committee in Ebonyi State. It has also announced the setting up of a 15 member caretaker executive as replacement. The development followed the defection of the state governor, Dave Umahi, from the Peoples Democratic Party to the APC. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘APC Caretaker Committee Dissolves Ebonyi State Executive Committee…Appoints 15-Member Caretaker Executive,’ signed by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, in Abuja late on Wednesday. The statement read in part, “The All Progressives Congress Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee has dissolved the Party’s Ebonyi State Working Committee following refusal of factions to withdraw court cases as directed by the 8th resumed meeting of the APC National Executive Committee and submit to internal party resolution mechanisms initiated by the CECPC. “A 15-member caretaker committee has subsequently been appointed by the APC CECPC to manage the Party’s affairs and carry out the planned membership registration, update, and revalidation exercise in Ebonyi State.” The party named Stanley Okoro as the new Chairman. Others are John Nwankata – Vice Chairman (North), Peter Nworie Ndubuisi – Vice Chairman (Central), Ozoemena Njoku – Vice Chairman (South) and Charles Ofoke as Secretary. [READ ALSO] Strike: Private varsities recruiting our members –ASUU Other members of the executive include Ogbonnaya Igboke – Organising Secretary, Chidi Ogbuatu – Publicity Secretary, Ikaa Ukeni – Legal Adviser, Chief Paulinus Ali (Zomo) – Treasurer, Chief Joseph Ozibo – Financial Secretary, Ogochukwu David Elem – Youth Leader, Odo Oluchi Juliet – Women Leader, Ogbonna David Nshii – Auditor, Adum Uchenna Basil –Physically Challenged
and Francis Obike Nweze – Welfare Secretary. The national leadership of the party appealed to party members in the state to support the new team for it to succeed in its given assignment.