Temiloluwa O’Peters The Ogun State Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Kikelomo Longe, has said the government is willing to allocate land to genuine stakeholders involved in the cultivation, processing and marketing of rubber in order to boost the commodity’s value chain. According to a statement issued by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment on Monday, Longe gave the assurance while meeting members of the National Rubber Producers, Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria, Ogun State branch, who paid her a courtesy visit in Abeokuta. According to Longe, the present administration is determined to revive the ailing rubber sector as products made from rubber are considered more environmentally friendly than plastics. She said despite an increase in demand for the state’s arable land from local and foreign investors, the government was willing to support the development of the rubber value chain by allocating land to stakeholders with convincing plans which would benefit the state. Longe said, “I am excited at the prospects that rubber has to offer us in Ogun State. Governor Dapo Abiodun has indicated that rubber is a cash crop that has potential to be a game changer for us in Ogun State. “On a daily basis we get requests from investors looking for land to site their business in the state. So your proposal must be convincing. In partnering with NARPPMAN, we must be sure the interest of the state is well protected.” The commissioner called on the group to do a compelling proposal, noting that the association’s land request may be awarded in phases. The Ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Olu-Ola Aikulola lauded the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment for the establishment of NARPPMAN as part of efforts to boost the rubber value chain. The Chairman, NARPPMAN, Ogun State branch, Oladele MacDaniel, requested the state government to support the association’s drive of increasing rubber production in the state through the allocation of 10,000 hectares of land. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    