Tony Okafor, Awka The Federal Government on Monday said it would open traffic on the Onitsha-Enugu Expressway under construction in December. The 38-kilometre road had been under construction since 2018 with a completion date in 2021. But on Monday, the Federal Ministry of Works said the expressway would be opened from December 16 to ease traffic. The Federal Director Highways in charge of South-East, Bola Aganaba, disclosed this during an inspection tour of the project. He regretted that the coronavirus pandemic slowed down the pace of work on the road. While expressing optimism that the project would be completed on schedule in 2021 despite the odds, Aganaba said one lane of the road would be ready by December. He said, “I have come to check what the contractors are doing because before now, we gave them instruction to ensure that one side of the expressway was completed before the yuletide for easy movement for motorists. “The contractors have agreed to open it just for the Christmas to reduce hardship usually encountered by people returning for the Christmas and New Year celebrations. “We don’t want people to encounter gridlock and we have also arranged with the Federal Road Safety Corps to ensure that obstacles are promptly removed. “By the time table given to the contractors, one lane of the expressway from Onitsha to Enugu would be completed by the middle of next year. The Enugu end is also being rehabilitated; contractors are also working on the Enugu end. The Anambra State Controller of Works, Adeyemo Ajani, said, “The section from Umunya-Amawbia is 18 kilometres and the contractors have completed 12 kilometers, remaining about six kilometres which is expected to be completed by the middle of December.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 