Kayode Oyero Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, says more opposition politicians are set to join the ruling All Progressives Congress. Buni, who is the Chairman of APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, made this known on Wednesday during a meeting between members of the Caretaker Committee and the APC Senate caucus which held at the National Assembly, Abuja. In a statement by Ezrel Tabiowo, Special Assistant on Press to Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, Buni reportedly said the defection of Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State; former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, amongst others, were the beginning of the mass defection to the APC. In the statement, Tabiowo quoted Buni as saying, “Today, we are proud to say that the conflicts in most, if not all of the states have been settled. The party now proudly parade political heavyweights in different states who have either returned to the party or freshly joined the party. “We have the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara; Former PDP National Chairman, Senator Barnabas Gemade; and several members of the National Assembly, among others. “Many others have indicated their interest to return or join the party. In fact, I want to assure you all that APC would soon shock Nigeria’s political space with massive and unprecedented defections ever witnessed in the political history of our great country. And by the grace of God, APC will undoubtedly remain Nigeria’s leading political party.” Speaking on efforts by the caretaker committee to reconcile aggrieved APC members, the Yobe State governor said, “the reconciliation exercise by the committee as part of its interventions demands internal resolutions within the party, and calls for all court cases against the party to be withdrawn from the courts to allow internal settlement of the various disputes. “The caretaker committee has collected all such cases, including identifying the parties to the disputes and litigations and has made schedules for immediate withdrawal of litigations, while equally setting out procedures for hearing out all aggrieved members, including creating a neutral ground for all to voice out their grievances.” “As at today, the party has recorded a large number of resolved intra-party disputes while others are ongoing with strong prospects of resolving them,” he added. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Senator representing Adamawa North, Elisha Abbo, on Wednesday, informed the Senate of his defection from the opposition PDP to the ruling APC.