Okechukwu Nnodim The Federal Government on Friday announced the inauguration of a portal that would enable exited N-Power beneficiaries to apply for the Central Bank of Nigeria’s empowerment options. N-Power is one of the social investment programmes of the Federal Government designed and implemented to support thousands of Nigerians with jobs. The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development announced in Abuja that it developed the new portal in collaboration with CBN. It said in a statement signed by its Permanent Secretary, Bashir Alkali, that the platform would enable exited N-Power beneficiaries to log on and apply for the various economic, empowerment and entrepreneurship options provided by CBN. The humanitarian minister, Sadiya Farouq, encouraged interested exited beneficiaries of N-Power to log on to the portal and provide the required information for possible placements into the various CBN intervention options. She said the ‘NEXIT Portal’ would determine the suitability of the beneficiaries for the CBN affiliated programmes. Farouq was quoted as saying, “The NEXIT portal is to determine the suitability of the beneficiaries for the CBN affiliated programmes and is dependent on meeting the criteria and conditions set by the CBN for the said programmes.” The minister thanked the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, for supporting the initiative, adding that her ministry remained committed to the government’s vision of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. Farouq said her ministry was willing to collaborate with relevant agencies of government and other stakeholders towards the realisation of the vision, as she congratulated the exited N-Power beneficiaries. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 