Temiloluwa O’Peters The Nigerian Society of Engineers, Ikeja Branch will be driving engineering development in Lagos State by developing indices around its engineering and providing engineering solutions to the state’s thematic challenges. The Chairman, NSE, Ikeja Branch, Tosin Ogunmola, noted this at a press conference held in Lagos on Tuesday, adding that the society would work on a compendium of the engineering state as a working tool of engagement with the Lagos State government and private sector. According to him, the branch will also champion projects to address the identified gaps and create a measurement framework to track progress in engineering development in the state. Ogunmola stated that to drive this initiative, study groups had been set up to work on four different sectors of the state and four specific challenges in the state. The chairman said, “The sectors to be worked on are agriculture, transportation, infrastructure maintenance and engineering legislation. “The specific challenges being addressed are environmental pollution at Olusosun, incessant road accidents at Otedola bridge, perennial flooding in the state and Apapa traffic gridlock in Apapa.” In addition to its state-wide engineering development plan, Ogunmola noted that the branch would spearhead engineering advocacy in collaboration with the other NSE branches, divisions and other relevant organisations on key issues. “The crowning endeavour to underline the sustainability of our work is our plan to establish an active Young Engineers Forum and a well-functioning STEM Cell in the branch to support the dreams, aspirations and creativity of our young ones,” he added. Ogunmola stated that the branch sought to raise at least N100m over the next nine months to undertake the implementation of the initiatives, adding that the inauguration of the branch’s executive committee would hold in December. He said the event would see the convergence of partners and stakeholders in progress on the initiatives as well as engineering development as a catalyst for national development. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 