TBWA/CONCEPT and Ford Foundation are planning to train 10,000 SMEs, what does this entail? It came out of a conversation with Ford Foundation on how SMEs can get better, especially given the things we have seen during the COVID-19 era. COVID-19 has been tough on everyone, including businesses but it has been tougher on the SMEs because they probably have a lower reserve and probably have less to fall back on. So, typical of Ford to fund such initiatives, we are co-initiators of the training with them but it is more or less funded by Ford and us and it will benefit businesses all over the country. The idea is that we have a couple of modules and videos that we have put together in certain specific areas like funding, revenue matters, marketing and branding, digitalisation and business remodelling. Those are the buckets and in each bucket there are a couple of videos that speak to them. We got subject matter experts who spoke to these issues and we would put them on our platform for business owners to learn from. We have SMEs shop that we set up a few years ago to support the growth of SMEs in the country. So, we are putting out the videos and SMEs that have registered would have access to it on a continuous basis for free. Among the 10,000 beneficiaries, we will select about 50 SMEs across the six geopolitical zones and do live consultations for them for free. You’re an advertising practitioner, what is your motivation for this initiative? SMEs are the engine of growth in an economy and we all need to do something to help. Also, we believe that if we spur growth, we will also partake in the growth and returns, but if we are all waiting for growth to happen, we will all keep waiting as a country. We have a huge number of SMEs in this country and for it to go round, everything is online. People can download the videos and learn from them. Clearly, capacity building is critical in our business and like we say, funding is important but knowledge is better. Are there new challenges that have emerged post-COVID-19 that this initiative would address? Clearly, there are new challenges. Some are not new but some have become exacerbated. With COVID-19 and challenge with gathering, people now see they can do business without physical contact. A lot of SMEs didn’t think about that, but this is the new normal. Technology has become an enhancer. People now use WhatsApp to sell than before. Some people who have motorcycles have gone into using it for delivery. So, you can virtually buy anything online. However, that has its own challenges, which means my payment system has to be secure, my customer fulfilment in terms of logistics has to be top notch and other things. This implies that there are issues that come with e-commerce which may affect your business and these are things we also addressed. Like I said, our modules cover access to funds, credit sale management, financial budgeting and marketing and branding. If any SME wishes to grow, it has to have a clear strategy, otherwise you might just be doing the same thing over and over for 50 years and you are not growing. Those are the solutions we have captured in the video on our SME shop. You once said SMEs need to adopt branding and marketing techniques so they don’t go out of business, but many SMEs are primarily preoccupied with survival. How do you get them to embrace those techniques when their priority is to survive? It’s all about knowledge, and that is why the knowledge of branding and marketing is key. It’s been said that your best marketing strategy is your product itself and so if you understand the precept of marketing and branding, it means your product itself has a job to do and you have to make sure you are not just making a product for yourself. Also, the people you are targeting are important and your pricing should match your product. Therefore, anyone who wants to really make something in business must understand marketing. Now, people use the word ‘branding’ loosely. When people stamp their name on a product, they call it branding. No, branding is a deliberate effort built from your product, pricing and the people you want to target, all working together to competitively fulfil a goal. People want to buy superior things, so the quality must be good; if it’s delivery, it must be done as promised and the pricing must be right. And when things go wrong, you must address them and make amends. You could also embrace partnership, such that when you make the product, a logistics company could make the delivery. A good customer relation management also helps you to segment customers and know how best to relate with some customers. So, indeed, marketing is at the core of any business. One of the materials focuses on demystifying branding and marketing and SMEs need to understand that it’s not cosmetic but a discipline they need to learn and more of a livewire for the business. They don’t need to be experts at it but they need to know the fundamentals and part of what this does is to create awareness. If you are aware that you have an issue, you start to look for the solution. If you have an ailment and you don’t have money to go to the hospital, you could check the Internet to see what is wrong. That is a useful start. Most of the SMEs don’t understand that there is a marketing problem; this is not about hiring an advertising agency, it’s about the fundamental of your business. There are start-ups on the social media platforms, but in your view, to what extent have SMEs in general embraced social media as a platform for marketing? They haven’t as much as expected. I think there are about 91 million people on the Internet in Nigeria and I think about 60 per cent of them are on mobile devices. A lot of our people have not understood the power of using social media for business. A lot of business persons only use the social media for chatting. Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook are potent marketing platforms for SMEs, but some don’t know and it’s about knowledge and it comes back to digital marketing. Like I said, some of the modules we have is digital marketing and digitisation. For instance, if a man who sells vehicle spare parts in Onitsha needs some components in China, he doesn’t need to go to China and many of them are learning fast now. From Onitsha, he could do a virtual tour of what he wants and they could conclude the transaction and they would ship it here. Business has changed and those who are smart understand that. Part of why we are doing this is to grow capacity. For us, the key to growth in the SMEs sector is knowledge. I know it’s simplistic to say it’s about knowledge; no doubt funding is important, but knowledge shows you how to get funding. If your concept is good, you are a step closer to getting funding. There is funding from the Federal Government and other multilateral organisations, but you need the right proposals to get it. The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria and the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment need to take an urgent look at how you can scale up SMEs for them to be able to attract funding. One of the strong factors for growth is innovation, which comes from research and getting things that are new so they can give you a better growth trajectory. Were we to have prizes attached to solving problems in different sectors of the economy, a lot of things would have improved in Nigeria. Small business owners often complain of the bureaucracy involved in getting funds and some of them are not literate to help themselves, how do we help them to cross that hurdle? There are a couple of these organisations like the Bank of Industry that if they put funds down, they have consultants who can guide you in putting together your business plans to be able to attract that funding. There will always be bureaucracy and that is why knowledge is key. The funders also need to make sure that the people the funds are meant for get them. The SMEs on their own also need to reach out to learn how to attract those funds. Sometimes, our people are lazy. I know people don’t like to talk about it but you can’t sit back and say they didn’t give you the money. We need to make an effort; talk to experts or knowledgeable people around you because we are not gifted equally. We all need to get this economy moving. With the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement, there will be urgency and with the way the world is going, nobody really cares about anybody. We need to develop ourselves and care about ourselves first. At TBWA, we believe in home-grown growth and that was why we started the SMEs shop to be able to spark that growth in that sector. I’m certain people would find the materials very useful, if only they can take advantage of it. The focus is usually on funding, but to get the funding, you need knowledge. On the Internet, there are volumes of materials that can’t even be exhausted, how do you plan to make your materials attractive to the people who need them? The thing about what we are putting out is that it’s not really generic; it’s very specific to the SMEs because we first did a need analysis; speaking with the right people. Talking about access to funding, when you see the solution coming from an expert in that field in the Bank of Industry, for example, talking about how to access funds, you would understand it more as to what you need to do. Also, our promotional plan and online campaign would bring it to you in a way that you would know. Also, it’s free, so that helps too. I also feel the time is right for it. People look at the quality of materials and where it is coming from. The combination of TBWA and Ford Foundation gives an assurance of what to expect. What we have also done is to reach out to the market clusters, like in Nnewi and Aba and what we plan to do is share the links to the clusters so they could share with others. Out of the 10,000 we were targeting, we will shortlist 50; 40 women and 10 men, from all the zones that we could do live consultations with free. You were once the President of the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria, from your vantage point, would you say SMEs embrace proper advertising? I don’t have the numbers, but the question is if they always work with the professionals. Not necessarily and you must remember that advertising is broad and it entails flyers, signposts and other things. SMEDAN should have those numbers. So, where are we? The common literature is that advertising grows with Gross Domestic Product growth, so when GDP is not strong, advertising tends to suffer. I think we are under-advertising for our GDP. It’s not really growing in real terms and I don’t think we have enough products that are competitive across the verticals and that is why innovation and productivity go together to support advertising. Chief Biodun Shobanjo talked about it at the advertising conference last year. The big top advertisers are not more than six. What is the implication if we don’t bridge the knowledge gap among the SMEs? I shudder to think about it. If you are not growing, you are regressing. Before COVID-19, we were at about two per cent growth and with our population, that growth is nothing, so we need to use knowledge, innovation and thinking to leapfrog the current situation. I think we need real home-grown growth. Oil money has made all of us lazy in terms of thinking. In virtually all the areas, there is opportunity for growth but they can’t happen without us thinking differently. So, if we don’t grow, we will be worse than a time bomb. Nigeria imports many items, including the ones we produce here. In the absence of high tariff to discourage importation of same goods, how do we make sure our SMEs survive the influx of foreign goods? It’s a difficult operating environment but we have to be innovative and that is important for marketing. There is a cable company in Anambra State and people who buy cable around there would tell you not to patronise any other product. Why? They have a strong brand and strong brand means people have used it and they can be trusted. Branding is a bundle of benefits. For us to be able to overcome, in addition to the import bars and I believe there must be restrictions, we can’t have trade deficit and open ourselves to all kinds of things to come in because we want to be liberal. Also, we must make competitive products and you can only do that when you are innovative and not just lazy complaining about everything. We have had African Growth and Opportunity Act but I don’t know how many Nigerians have taken advantage of it. So, making products that are competitive is one of the ways to stay ahead and SMEDAN should be doing more to grow the SMEs. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 