Joseph Olaoluwa The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has said that the construction of the Kano-Maradi line will help Nigeria solve the challenge of bad roads and compete favourably with neighbouring states. Amaechi said this during a train inspection tour of the 156km Lagos-Ibadan rail line on Monday. He said, “The essence of that line is for us to be able to transport cargo, not just from Niger Republic but from neighbouring states. “We are not competing well with Togo, Benin Republic, Ivory Coast and Ghana over cargoes that come from the landlocked states. “The excuse given for the poor competition by Nigerians is that our roads are bad, criminals attack them at police and Customs checkpoints. They are not able to do business due to the high cost of transactions. “If we have to compete favourably, it means that Nigeria has to repair or rebuild the roads. However, a rail line will solve the problem.” The minister apologised for the breakdown of the Abuja-Kaduna train, noting that the contractor and the National Railway Corporation have been directed to fix it, as he worried that Nigeria may have to make use of its old locomotives. He said the failure could affect the number of times the rail could operate because it was just recently procured to increase passenger services. Amaechi tasked the contractor working on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line to increase the pace of the work. He said, “There is a need to increase the pace of the work. They were doing well, but the pace of work has slowed down. “COVID-19 is no longer an excuse. They have worked for three months; we insist. The Permanent Secretary, myself, Chairman of NRC Board, the tech committee should meet with them tomorrow to ensure the pace of work is increased so that by the next time, we will see a huge improvement. “They gave COVID-19 as an excuse for cutting down the number of workers but if you wear your mask and sanitise your hands, you will reduce the risk of infection.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com       