Angela Onwuzoo A new study carried out on Herpes Simplex Virus type 2 (HSV-2) in Katsina has shown that majority of people in the state are infected but are not seeking diagnosis and treatment due to poverty and lack of awareness. The study identified poverty, unprotected sex and lack of awareness as some of the factors responsible for the prevalence of the sexually transmitted infection in the state. The study, published in the Journal of Transmitted Diseases and Immunity, examined the incidences and possible risk factors associated with subclinical genital herpes among different populations in the state. Author of the  study, Dr. Hayatudeen Rumah, from the Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Natural and Applied Sciences, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua University, Katsina, said HSV-2 appears to be relatively high in the state, with older people more vulnerable to the infection than younger ones. Rumah said HSV-2 is a significant public health problem, being one of the most prevalent sexually transmitted infections worldwide and the leading cause of genital ulcerative disease that is common in both industrialised and developing countries. In the study, Rumah said a total of 460 blood samples were collected from six hospitals located across the three senatorial zones of the state. The subjects included 86 HIV-positive persons, 136 feverish patients, 125 pregnant women and 113 normal individuals. According to him, the serum were separated from the blood and used for the analysis and the participant’s socio-demographic information and clinical presentations were also noted with the aid of a questionnaire. “HSV-2 IgM were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The HSV-2 IgM were detected in 41.5 percent of all the serum tested. “My study finds out that a significant majority of people infected in Katsina State are not seeking treatment and diagnosis of HSV-2 simply because they have little or no money for such purpose. “According to report on infectious diseases of poverty, poverty-related circumstances such as lack of food, shelter, security and social protection make people more vulnerable to infections. “Katsina State was ranked as second state in Nigeria with higher population of people that live below average poverty level. “This factor can influence behaviours as shown in my research, income level and type of settlement  affect the decision on whether or not to seek medical attention in case of manifestation of the clinical symptom of the diseases,” Rumah said. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 