Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi A survivor of police brutality in Bauchi State, Abduwahab Bello, has instituted three separate suits against the police for torture and death of two of his friends, and demanded N450m in total as compensation. The PUNCH had reported that Bello and his two friends, Ibrahim Babangida and Ibrahim Ismail, popularly known as Kampalala, were allegedly beaten by the Divisional Police Officer of the Township Division Headquarters in Bauch State on July 21, 2020 over alleged theft of chickens belonging to a retired Police officer. The torture led to the death of Kampalala and Babangida while Bello survived with life threatening injuries. Joined in the three separate suits, instituted at the Federal High Court, Bauchi, on October 22, 2020, are the DPO, Baba Ali; Sergeant Jibril Mohammed; Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; Commissioner of Police, Bauchi State, Lawan Jimeta; and the Police Service Commission as first, second, third, fourth and fifth respondents. In the three separate suits he filed, Bello is demanding for himself and two for his deceased friends, N150m each as compensation. While N100m each is for compensation against the respondents jointly and severally to be paid to the relations of Babangida and Kampalala , and himself, N50m each is compensation as general damages. Counsel for the applicant, Muktar Usman, declared in the suit that the act of beating up the suspects while in custody by the DPO amounts to an infringement of their fundamental rights to human dignity of persons as enshrined in Section 34 of the 1999 constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria as amended saying the action of the DPO was illegal and unlawful. The applicant, according to the counsel, is also demanding for a public apology by the respondent for breaches to be published in conspicuous pages in at least three national dailies widely circulated in Nigeria. When the matter came up for mention on Tuesday, the respondents did not file any response date which expired on the same day. The presiding judge, Justice Hassan Dikko, who adjourned the case to November 13 for definite hearing on fundamental human rights violation, gave an order for service of hearing on all the respondents. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     