Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja MINISTERS from the South-West have called on the Federal Government to assist the Lagos State Government in restoring some of the public facilities destroyed in the aftermath of the recent #EndSARS protests in the state. They identified 15 police stations, state High Court building and others as some of facilities destroyed during the period. The ministers also urged the government to investigate the involvement of the military in the reported shooting of protesting youths at the Lekki toll gate. The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, disclosed these to State House correspondents on Wednesday at the end of the weekly meeting of the Federal Executive Council presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Fashola, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, said he briefed the council on how they executed the presidential directive of October 21, 2020 that ministers should visit their states and state governors. The minister said after meeting with state governors from the zone, it was decided that being the epicentre of the violence, they should all visit Lagos State, a directive he added was obeyed. He said, “The summary of the report presented to us by the Lagos State Government is that about 15 police stations were lost, commercial undertakings, especially the ones in Lekki and many other parts in Surulere were damaged. Some schools were also damaged, private properties were also damaged. “Public buildings like the City Hall, the Lagos High Court, Lagos Forensic Laboratory and DNA Centre, the Nigeria Ports Authority were also damaged. “The palace of the Oba of Lagos and many others were damaged. So, we presented the documentary evidence presented to us by the government of Lagos State which was shown to the council. “Then we visited a few palaces; the Lagos High Court, led by the governor of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. We visited NPA, forensic laboratory and the Lekki Toll Plaza as well and as you all know; we found some items which we handed over to the state government at the site.” On the shooting at the Lekki tollgate, Fashola added, “We also urged the Federal Government to undertake a thorough investigation into what happened at the Lekki Toll Plaza, particularly the role of the military and ensure that the outcome is made public with a view to achieving closure on the matter. “We recommended that the Federal Government re-mobilise critical organs and agencies such as the National Orientation Agency and formal educational institutions to focus on ethical re-orientation, inculcation of family values into the school curriculum.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 