Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The new Emir of Zazzau, Ambassador Ahmad Nuhu Bamalli, on Monday, received his staff of office as the 19th Emir of Zazzau in the Zazzau Emirate Council in Kaduna State. Bamalli, a former Nigerian Ambassador to Thailand, is from the Mallawa Dynasty in the Emir Council and emerged emir after the death of Alhaji Shehu Idris in September. After Bamalli’s appointment as the new emir, one off the contestants to the stool, Alhaji Bashar Aminu, Iyan Zazzau, had approach the court over the selection. A High Court in Zaria, Kaduna State last Friday, dismissed an application to halt the coronation of the new emir. Following the court verdict, the state governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, on Monday, in the ancient city of Zaria, presented the staff of office to the new emir. El-Rufai described the event as a historical moment after the 45-year reign of the late emir, Alhaaji Shehu Idris, on the throne. While presenting the staff of office to the new emir, El-Rufai explained that Bamalli’s emergence as new emir was to redress colonial injustice. El-Rufai recalled that Bamalli’s grandfather, Aliyu Dan Sidi, was unjustly deposed by the colonial Governor of Northern Region, Herbert Symonds Goldsmith. The governor said Bamalli was taking the Staff of Office “exactly 100 years” after his grandfather was deposed by the white ruler. He said Bamalli’s coronation presented an opportunity “to return to the enduring principles that guided the appointment of emirs under the Sokoto Caliphate.” He said, “Shehu Usman Dan Fodio, in his seminal work, ‘Bayan Wujub Al-Hijra’, was crystal clear that there are nine qualities of Islamic leadership – wisdom, learning, clemency, generosity, kindness, righteousness, patience, gratitude, and leniency, which entails avoidance of harshness. “It is on the basis of due regard to these customs, rules and enabling laws that Almighty Allah chose Your Highness to be our emir, and imposed on me the constitutional duty to appoint you. I therefore call on all those that contested the emir-ship to accept the will of Allah and join hands with the 19th Emir of Zazzau for the progress and harmony in the emirate.” In his speech, the new emir stressed the need for the promotion of the traditional institutions across the county. While saying that his emergence was the will of Allah, the emir urged his contenders for the stool to join hands with him, “so that united we can collectively rebuild our fragmented society, region and indeed the country at large.” He added, “Our agenda for the emirate is one of security, peace and development. We shall roll out our plan and call on everyone to support us as we honourably discharge this responsibility before God.” Dignitaries at the event included the Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammad Abubakar, who represented the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.); a former Vice-President, Namadi Sambo; Sultan, Etsu Nupe, Emir of Kano, Shehu of Borno, deputy governors of of Kogi and Bauchi. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 