FBNQuest Merchant Bank has said it conducted an extensive due diligence exercise and screened the technical and financial bids submitted by both local and foreign investors for the acquisition of Afam Power Plc and Afam Three Fast Power Limited. FBNQuest Merchant Bank said it was appointed by the Bureau of Public Enterprises, on behalf of the National Council on Privatisation, to act as the financial adviser and consortium lead on the privatisation and sale of 100 per cent equity stake in the power firms. The investment banking and asset management subsidiary of FBN Holdings Plc said the transaction commenced in 2018 with a broad auction process that shortlisted local and foreign potential investors. It noted that Transcorp Power Consortium emerged as the preferred bidder on the transaction. It said process was concluded after successful negotiation of the transaction agreements with the preferred bidder, and the share sale and purchase agreement were executed at a signing ceremony, which held at the Presidential Villa in November 2020. The transaction was significant as the successful completion represented a landmark in the Federal Government’s commitment to the reformation of the power sector, according to FBNQuest. Speaking on the transaction, the Deputy Managing Director of FBNQuest Merchant Bank, Mr Taiwo Okeowo, said, “We are proud to be working with the Bureau of Public Enterprises and other parties on this transaction. “As a leading investment banking institution, we understand the role we must play in supporting our clients across the private and public sector. We continue to build our team of industry experts across oil and gas, power, infrastructure, services, diversified industries, and other emerging sectors of the economy to enable us support their goals and objectives.” “As a member of the FBN Holdings group, FBNQuest Merchant Bank is positioned to provide complementary services to the Group’s expansive client base of retail, high net-worth and institutional customers, while also offering a broader choice in financing, investments and transaction execution. The group continues to ensure the delivery of innovative initiatives to enhance its positioning and deliver shareholder value,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 