Wale Oyewale, Ibadan A former deputy governor of Oyo State, Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja, and a former Senior Special Assistant on Public Affairs to former Governor Abiola Ajimobi, Mr Deji Aboderin, led over 2,000 opposition party members in Ibadan South-East Local Government Area to join the ruling Peoples Democratic Party. The defection was made public during a rally held at Christ Church Primary School. Odinjo, Ibadan, on Tuesday. Most of those who defected into the PDP were members of the African Democratic Congress, Zenith Labour Party, as well as the All Progressives Congress. Those who joined the PDP from the opposition parties during the event also include a former member of the state assembly, Mr Ademola Ige. Others include Fatai Adesina, Dele Ojo, Adedoja Ekolo, Sunday Babatunde and Yinka Omikunle. Speaking shortly after they were received into the PDP, Arapaja, said, “The PDP has brought a new paradigm shift to governance in the state in the area of road infrastructure, free education for students, health care delivery, prompt payment of workers’ salaries on or before the 25th of every month, payment of the backlog of pension to retired civil servants among others. “Reconciliation is very important. The governor realizes this and that is why he sets up a reconciliation committee headed by Chief Saka Balogun. There must not be any faction or group whatsoever in the PDP. We are back to PDP. The opposition will never return to power in Oyo State, but we must unite and mobilize to achieve this.” In his remarks, Aboderin, who was the APC House of Representatives candidate for Ibadan South-East/North-East in the 2019 poll, said, “The unification rally is to ensure that defectors are properly united with old members. I am a believer in good governance. The best way to help our state and people is to support the Governor Seyi Makinde-led administration. Many of us decided to put our political ambition aside to join the governor.” Leading members of the PDP who attended the event were the wife of a former governor of the state, Alhaja Mutiat Ladoja and the state PDP Secretary, Mr Wasiu Adeleke. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 