Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa THE Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa presided over by Justice Jane Inyang on Tuesday disqualified the candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the Bayelsa West senatorial bye-election, Mr Peremobowei Ebebi. Justice Inyang delivered the judgment on a case of alleged forgery filed against Ebebi by Mr Richman Samuel, a former director of Domestic Matters, Government House, Yenagoa. Ebebi, who is a former deputy governor, emerged the APC senatorial candidate for Bayelsa West in a direct mode of primary election conducted in September by the party’s primary electoral committee headed by General Abdulsalam Dahiru (retd.) But the plaintiff contended that the academic credentials and voter card which the defendant submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission for the bye-election were forged documents. Justice Inyang, in her ruling, upheld the plaintiff’s argument and declared the APC candidate ineligible to contest the bye-election. She held that the voter card which the Ekeremor-born politician submitted to INEC “as declared by his (Ebebi’s) father, bears a different age and, therefore, contradicts other of his documents and his filed INEC forms.” She also noted that details presented showed that Ebebi’s West African Senior School Certificate, which the defendant used to gain admission to study Law at the Rivers State University of Science and Technology, had only two credits, which fell short of the required credits in five relevant subjects, including English Language and Literature in English. Ebebi could not be reached for comments as he neither answered calls to his phone nor respond to a text message sent to him by our correspondent. But a member of his campaign team, who pleaded no to be named because he was not authorised to speak on the issue, said the APC candidate would appeal the judgment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   