There have been criticisms over plans by some states like Ekiti and Nasarawa and others to build airports, with the support of the Federal Government, would you say those criticisms are justified or misplaced? Those criticisms are absolutely misplaced. Each state is responsible for its own development and so if it is waiting for the Federal Government to build an airport to open it up, that state has abdicated its responsibility for its own development. Having an airport is basically to open up the state to citizens, foreigners, investors, speed up access to medical services and provide a way for agricultural products to leave the state at the appropriate time. So, there are many different uses of an airport. If you look at the development index of state to state, you would clearly observe that states that have airports are far more advanced than those that don’t have. So, why would any state fold its arms and allow itself to be disadvantaged because the Federal Government does not wish to build an airport there or does not make that a priority. Some people argue that the airports in some states are not really viable, commercially, like the one in Akure, so why build more airports when some existing ones are not viable? If the airport in Akure is not viable, what does that do for Osun or Ogun states? And when people say an airport is not viable, what does it mean? That it is not making money or it doesn’t record 100,000 passengers a year? Is that the basis for determining the viability of an airport? If one individual has a life-threatening disease and the person could be flown out of that location quickly to a better facility in Nigeria or abroad, has it not justified the need for an airport? If investors visit states that have airports and those that don’t have, and make huge investment in the state that has because of accessibility, is that not justification for an airport? The justification for an airport is not a matter of counting the number of people that transit through it or the profitability of it, but the fact that it provides a service that is directly or indirectly beneficial to the state and society. For example, if we do not have an airport in Nigeria and Ghana has an airport, simply because Ghana has a higher throughput, is that enough justification to say we shouldn’t have our own? Some of the states that want to build an airport have huge domestic and foreign debts and they can hardly implement the new minimum wage, which means they have to borrow more to finance such project, should building an airport be a priority? There are two ways to answer this; is the state in its current economic condition because it lacks an airport? An investor looking at an investment opportunity in Nasarawa, Kaduna and Benue states would first ask themselves how they would get in and out of the state. Obviously, the state without an airport is already disadvantaged in the first investment decision. If investment does not flow in, how will development be possible? That is one part of the equation. The other part is that the problem, which brings about the criticism, is that people do not understand what an airport is, and the fact that there are various types of airport. Every airport does not have to be like the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos, which has multiple runways, four kilometres runways and passenger terminal facilities. If you remember, one of the better airports in Nigeria that supported the entire oil and gas industry, which is the mainstay of our economy, was an airfield in Warri (Delta State); that was part of a road that had to be closed for planes to get in and out. We have gone from that to always relating an airport to something huge, requiring billions of naira. Are you advocating that it doesn’t need to be a multibillion naira project? The need for an airport is access to the state, so if airports are properly scaled, every state can build a small airport, but small enough to allow airplanes to land and take off and a corresponding terminal. Look at the Port Harcourt Airport; for a long time, the terminal was more of a container or a tent. But, was it not an airport serving the function of an airport. Why do you think the criticism is loud? The reason why the criticism is so loud is the misunderstanding of what an airport is; what it is there for, what purpose it’s there to serve and what is required to build an airport. If we can align ourselves with the reality that an airport is really necessary for development and that it can be built at a scale that it will not create a burden on the finances of the state while creating opportunities for investment, agriculture, transportation and other activities, everyone would find justification for every airport. I’m thinking of a state that has no airport but intends to build four within the next few years. Why would they want to build four, because they realise that they do not have oil; they do not have a burgeoning market but they have tremendous opportunity for tourism. So, a tourist travels to a city and has to travel in a bus to go to the other city, whereas if you build small airports or aerodrome, it becomes easy to arrive at any point. Kenya’s economic prosperity is directly tied to the significant development of the aviation and airports covering many communities in the country. In the United States, New York Metropolitan Area has about 25 airports, not minding that you have big airports like John F Kennedy International Airport, LaGuardia Airport and others. So, we must do away with the notion that every airport should be like Murtala Muhammed Airport in Lagos, which informs the belief that airports are not necessary because they cost so much. We don’t have to only look at the cost, we have to also look at the benefits. Should we then be aiming at each state having an airport? I would rather say it is necessary that each state in Nigeria has at least one airport. As you know, Lagos State is working to have two. If each state has an airport, will they be self-sustaining? That takes us to the problem of the poor management of airports and poor managers of airports. There is no reason why an airport should not be viable. What is an airport, a runway for airplanes to land and a terminal to receive the passengers. Why can’t an airport be a combination of things that contribute to its development and income until such a time that it is sustainable purely as a point for receiving and discharging passengers? Why can’t airports have shopping malls, entertainment centres, cinemas and other things that add to the income of the airport as an asset, in addition to job creation, attraction of investments and agric development. We really must stop limiting the potential of our assets. We must widen our understanding that we can do many things with this asset to make it viable. That applies to many airports that are sitting idle in many states while other assets are being developed. Every airport we have today can be better utilised if the right managers are in place. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 