Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Nigeria may face the scarcity of petrol in the coming days as oil workers have been ordered to down tools nationwide. Oil workers under the aegis of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria were ordered by the association to vacate their duty posts. It was, however, gathered on Monday evening that the Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment reached out to the oil workers and invited the association’s leaders to a meeting in Abuja. The order was issued in a letter, dated November 8, 2020, and signed by the General Secretary, PENGASSAN, Lumumba Okugbawa, which was also copied to the Central Working Committee members of the association. Okugbawa told our correspondent in Abuja that the strike was to kick against the failure of government to make any concrete move as regards the differences between PENGASSAN and government on matters bordering on the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System. “Yes I signed the letter and it is from the association to all branch chairmen but up till this minute, we’ve not received any word from government on the issues of concern,” he said on Monday morning. The letter to all branch chairmen of PENGASSAN was titled ‘Re: Breach in agreement on IPPIS implementation and redundancy in Baker Hughes’. It read in part, “We refer to the above letter dated November 2, 2020 where we gave seven-day ultimatum and further extension to the relevant government agencies and institutions. “Regrettably and upon the expiration of the ultimatum, nothing concrete has been done with regards to the outstanding issues as enumerated in the letter. “In view of the above and with the expiration of the ultimatum and subsequent extension, you are hereby advised to withdraw services effective midnight on Sunday November 8, 2020.” The association directed the branch chairmen to ensure that their members fully complied with the directive, adding that the chairmen should await further directive. “All zonal offices are to monitor compliance and report same to the national secretariat,” PENGASSAN stated in its letter. In August, The PUNCH reported that members of PENGASSAN in the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources and some of its agencies embarked on a three-day warning strike. The senior workers had downed tools at the Abuja headquarters of the FMPR in protest against the non-payment of their salaries for about three months. The strike was also embarked upon by PENGASSAN to kick against the Federal Government’s inclusion of its members in the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System. PENGASSAN and the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers had made the threat in a letter addressed to the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    