Chukwudi Akasike THE Conference of Nigeria Political Parties on Wednesday called for the immediate resignation of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, for their roles in the shooting of unarmed protesters at the Lekki Tollgate and the attempt to cover up the extrajudicial killings of Nigerians. Also told to resign forthwith from his position for a similar act is the Director General of the Director General of the National Broadcasting Commission, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba. The Nigerian Army has insisted that its men did not kill anybody during the Lekki Tollgate shooting. But a statement by the CNPP Secretary General, Willy Ezugwu, titled, ‘Lekki shooting cover-up: Buhari, Buratai, NBC DG must resign now – CNPP,’ described as unpatriotic the roles played by the trio in the attempt to cover up the shooting of protesters. “The CNPP has called for the immediate resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari, the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, and the Director General of the Nigerian Broadcasting Commission, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba, for their ignoble roles in the shooting of unarmed protesters at Lekki Tollgate and the unpatriotic attempt to cover up the extrajudicial killings of Nigerians singing the national anthem while protesting killings of their compatriots by security forces,” the statement read. Reacting to a report by CNN, which it added, indicted the Nigerian Army in the Lekki shooting, the conference called on “the International Criminal Court to investigate, arrest and prosecute them and their co-travellers for crimes against humanity to serve as deterrent to other African leaders who kill unarmed peaceful demonstrators, protesting bad policies of government.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   