John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party has cautioned Nigerians against falling for the antics of the ruling All Progressives Congress, which it said has failed in governance and the management of its affairs. According to the opposition party, Friday’s visit by APC governors to the Abuja residence of ex- President Goodluck Jonathan, was a confirmation and acknowledgment that Nigeria was better managed under a PDP-led administration. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘APC Governors’ Visit To Jonathan Affirms Nigeria is Better With PDP,’ by the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja on Sunday. Ologbondiyan said, “The PDP therefore receives the visit by APC governors as an apology by the APC to our party and Nigerians over the lies, beguilements and other irresponsible allegations deployed by the APC to grab power, only to lead our nation on a journey to nowhere. “We therefore caution Nigerians to be watchful of the antics of the APC that have failed in governance and the management of its own affairs.” Recall that the Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, on Friday, led APC chieftains, including governors on a visit to Jonathan, at his Abuja residence, to facilitate with him on his 63rd birthday. The PDP statement read in part, “The visit, which is a clear endorsement of the acceptability of the PDP administration, also indicates that the APC, in 2015, only created artificial symbols of misgovernance, corruption and other alleged misgivings just to discredit our party and grab the levers of power to achieve their selfish desires.” In response, the APC in a statement titled, “Why Is PDP Rattled By APC Governors’ Visit To Jonathan?,” signed by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, said, the opposition party was obviously rattled and disoriented by the courtesy visit. He said, “At a time when the PDP and its leadership are grappling with a crisis of confidence, one would expect the failed opposition to focus on picking itself up. As a party for all progressives, the APC on its part will continue to consolidate its national appeal and acceptance.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  