Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The Nigeria Medical Association has decried the burning of three hospitals in Oyigbo Local Government Area of Rivers State during the EndSARS protests. The Rivers NMA Chairman, Prof. Chizindu Alikor, while speaking to newsmen in Port Harcourt said it was unfortunate for anyone to contemplate destroying and setting on fire a place of care and called on the government and security agencies to fish out and prosecute those behind the wicked act. “So it becomes quite incomprehensible that people will vandalize, burn down hospitals, a place of care. We are calling on the government, the security agencies to investigate so that succour can be brought to our colleagues that had their facilities destroyed,” he stated. Meanwhile, the National Association of Seadogs has handed over medical supplies and related medical items to the State Government-owned Comprehensive Health Centre in Oyigbo, to cushion the effect of the violence. Handing over the items, the President of NAS, Port Harcourt II, Mr. Chilaka Nwaogu, said the gesture was in fulfillment of the confraternity’s core values and humanistic ideals and a response to the immediate needs of the people. Some of the Items donated include hand sanitizers, facemasks, various drugs, bandages, antiseptics, and methylated spirits, among others. Nwaogu said, “As an association, we believe in humanistic ideals. We try to identify areas where we can come in and offer assistance. Oyigbo has been on the news of recent and we felt there were bound to be a humanitarian crisis as people were locked up by 24hours curfew for almost two weeks, without access to necessities like medic supplies.” Also speaking, President of NAS, Port Harcourt I, Ken Henshaw, said the donation was timely as the people of Oyigbo have been cut off from medical care due to the 24-hour curfew imposed on the area. “We however condemn in totality the fact that people committed a crime, killed law enforcement agents, and burned down police stations. It is condemnable and Pirates confraternity condemns it. “Nobody has the right to take the life of another person or destroy people’s properties. We declare those who carried out the act are criminals and in dealing with criminals, you use the police force not unleash the military on non-combatants, that was a bit in excess,” Henshaw stated.