Tope Omogbolagun The Chief Operating Officer of SOFresh, Abimbola Olagoke, has said the cost of fuelling generators can frustrate business owners in Nigeria. Olagoke said this while sharing the food company’s success story at its 10th anniversary in Lagos on Friday. She said, “The Nigerian economic landscape is not favourable for business growth because of the numerous challenges like inadequate electricity supply and bad roads that business face but we were able to surmount the challenges by delaying gratification. “We had to look for other means of providing electricity to the stores and to ensure that we keep things going. The amount spent on using generators is enough to discourage businesses. Also, the lack of access to funding is a significant challenge. Small businesses do not have adequate funding for their business as much as they would want to.” Olagoke said the organisation was able to surmount the challenges it faced, adding that if small enterprises stayed true to their visions, they would grow. She said, “Though I will advise that they should start with what they have. We are in the age of social media; all you need is a smartphone to make all the noise that you want. Don’t wait for people to come to you with the money and loans; do all you can to attract all the needed attention to your business. “We didn’t spend our profit for a long time; we kept reinvesting our profit into the business. Building a business is a journey of patience and discipline. We ensured that we were financially disciplined and accountable.” The COO said the lack of quality people to work with was usually a scourge that had killed businesses in Nigeria. Earlier, the Chief Executive Officer, Olagoke Balogun, said beyond providing healthy and safe food to Nigerians, the organisation had been able to provide a ready market for farmers. He said, “We have been able to encourage food security in the country by buying directly from farmers to encourage their noble profession.  Our organisation has successfully tried to eradicate intermediaries so that we can buy goods at good prices from the farmer. Buying from them will ensure that the bulk of the money got to the farmers and they can be encouraged to produce more foods.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   