Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. I have always talked about ways to improve the Information and Communications Technology sector in Nigeria. I share tips based on experiences, observation, and foresight on how to become an active part of the fourth industrial revolution and the digital age. However, this week, I will do something slightly different. I will share some ways we have progressed socio-economically thanks to ICT. ICT is a tool that can elevate everyone and every area, whether urban or rural, as long they can access it. The more pervasive and advanced the ICT sector of a country, the better the economy of such a country. There are numerous advantages of ICT. Due to fast connectivity as well as the accessibility of knowledge and information, it has brought about a great improvement in various industries such as commerce and agriculture. The power of technology to develop nations lies in its ability to enhance communication and information management. It becomes obvious in the ways it serves as an engine for growth and a force for social and economic empowerment. Its power is also visible in that it gives everyone a level playing field in the global economy, such that no matter their location, individuals can play a role as long as they have information and communication access. This access is what makes it powerful as it reaches everyone and equips them with information and the power to create. The lack thereof is also a significant reason for Nigeria’s backwardness when it comes to ICT. In a country where about 60 per cent of its population is under 35 years, simply having information and communication access is just not enough to bring out the potentials of these youths. This deficiency causes a noticeable imbalance in the economy which suffers because the country’s young people neither think alike nor see the same possibilities. Nigeria officially got introduced into the ICT game around 2000. While we are not where we should be, we have made some strides. These strides are visible in some sectors, which directly affect the nation’s economy. Despite the sparse population of those with access to ICT, technological improvements are ongoing. To see how far we have gone, we will consider the following areas: In governance: While the penetrative power of ICT in the Nigerian government sector is far from impressive, the little visible has brought some improvements. We learn ways to save costs, to improve administrative effectiveness, to increase productivity and sustainable development and so on. Through continuous use, technology can help save time and improve accountability and efficiency in this sector. In education: While the country’s educational system is experiencing technical improvements with a focus on instructional applications, the C0VID-19 pandemic revealed how far we still have to go when it comes to ICT applications. Although the use of technology for instructional purposes is a growth factor, yet, it is not enough. The need for research and development in Nigeria is glaring. If technology is applied to research in the Nigerian educational sector, it would be considerable progress and would lead to more solutions to the numerous problems faced by the country. In business management: Aside from the vast platform of informational materials that come with the internet, Nigerians can compete with international brands and brainstorm with like minds all over the world has led to the creation of more world-class businesses in the country. These collaborations give rise to funding, merging, and acquisition from around the world. ICT gives businesses a broader platform to showcase their selling point. In this area, Nigeria is not lagging behind. Talking further on business management, the e-commerce sector continues to thrive due to the power of information made more accessible in this digital age. In e-commerce, ICT helps consumers by increasing choices in the market, just as it provides business owners with a wider market. Additionally, it helps to reduce transaction costs and improve individual and collective productivity. The Nigerian e-commerce sector is an active one that drives in substantial revenue annually. In banking: One of the most progressive sectors technology-wise is the banking sector. The rise of fintech awoke the traditional bank to the opportunities and possibilities available. This wake-up call has led to digital banks, e-banking, agent banking, and other means used to reach the unbanked. From VPD, Carbon, Kuda, Eyowo to the many loan apps, we see technology reaching the masses in the forms of payment platforms, micro-loans, saving accounts, and other services that traditional banking systems may not be able to offer citizens due to its structure. In transportation: While no solutions are provided to curb traffic challenges in major cities around the country, we can’t deny the ease cab-hailing companies have brought to many. Conveniently hailing a cab or bus in some cases, has saved time, lives money, and properties. It has also created jobs for many, reducing the percentage of unemployed citizens. In freelancing. A most significant aspect of technology is access to the internet. The internet, with its vibrant mix of people, mindsets, opportunities, and places, makes a global village that cuts across borders. The borderless space has benefitted many young Nigerians, allowing them to work remotely as freelancers. These people get jobs and deliver their services such that they are not constrained by the lack of job opportunities in the country. Without these freelancing opportunities, the state of the Nigerian economy would be far worse than it is presently. The internet has given many people opportunities that they wouldn’t have gotten wind of if not for the virtual world. As said earlier, there is a direct relationship between ICT and the economic development of a country. Besides giving power and opportunity to people, it saves time and cost, promotes efficiency, and provides solutions through tools and systems, giving way to better development. The Nigerian ICT sector has more miles to travel if the world would recognise it as excellent and advanced. However, judging from the above-mentioned developments ICT has wrought in Nigeria, we can agree that the more pervasive it gets in our society, the more efficient solutions it provides. Hence, the Nigerian economy will be a force to be reckoned with. CFA is the co-founder of techbuild.africa, a tech and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com