Temiloluwa O’Peters The Lagos State Government has declared that it will commence physical planning enforcement on all tank farms illegally operating in the state. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, announced during a meeting in Alausa on Friday that the enforcement would start the following week. He expressed displeasure at the unapproved and illegal operations of many tank farms in the state, saying that no such facility should operate without planning permit. He showed concern over the indiscriminate operations of tank farms, which had negatively impacted the host communities and rendered residents helpless. Salako said, “In most cases, the road capacity is inadequate for the activities of the tank farms whose operations have led to the collapse of road infrastructure, rendered critical social amenities such as school and hospital inaccessible and created urban squalors of the host communities.” He said the deliberate neglect of host communities by tank farms operating in the state despite unhonoured government overtures was regrettable. “This is especially when viewed against the backdrop of the fact that most of the outfits creating the problems were not only unapproved but also not paying taxes to the government,” he noted. He recalled that the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development had met with tank farm operators earlier in the year and had given a week’s ultimatum for them to regularise their facilities, which was followed by an additional two-week ultimatum, a month after the first ultimatum. The Physical Planning Commissioner maintained that there was no going back on the plan to start enforcing the extant physical planning laws on all erring tank farms as from the following week since the ultimatums given had lapsed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 