Chima Azubuike, Gombe Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya, has directed all public officers in the state to declare their assets in line with provisions of the Code of Conduct Bureau. Yahaya handed down the order on Thursday, while declaring open a one-day workshop for public officials in the state, facilitated by Asiwaju Ayokanmi on behalf of CCB and the Gombe state Government, with the theme: “Strict Compliance with Assets Declaration and Code of Conduct for Public Officials.” Yahaya said, his administration was committed to transparency and accountability in the conduct of government business. According to the governor, his administration’s quest for transparency led to the establishment of the bureau of public service reform in the state, bureau of public procurement, implementation of Treasury Single Account and the state’s steering committee on implementation of reforms. He said, “ Over the past one year, our administration has implemented policies aimed at reforming the public sector for better performance and improved service delivery. “considering our administration’s commitment to reforming and strengthening the public service sector in Gombe, I want to urge all officials to actively participate in the discussion and avail themselves with the regulation governing assets ownership and declaration for public servants.” Yahaya added that the need to instill the culture of honesty, transparency and accountability in the management of public institutions in Gombe state, led the state government to partner with the CCB. Speaking during the event, the chairman of CCB, Prof. Isah Mohammed, said part of CCBs mandate included the training of public servants in line with the administrative goal of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to fight corruption. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 