What do you make of the plans by some states to build airports? It does not make economic sense for any of the states, other than a state like Lagos, to build an airport, because those that have built airports before now are handing them over to the Federal Government; because they cannot maintain them. States that are still struggling to put money into their health care, education and fund intra-state roads should not venture into building airports. What is the passenger traffic they are looking at? The first thing they need to look at is the passenger traffic at the airports closer to them? What is the passenger traffic in these states? Any airport in this country that has passenger traffic less than 500,000 a year is not worth it. It cannot be economically viable. State governments have to think. Those who did it before them, what is the benefit? A lot of them, virtually all of them, are handing them over to the Federal Government. If there are individuals who have money and they can put money together to build an airport, that might be reasonable, but even then, they have to start considering other things they have to do in that airport, like Maintenance Repairs Organisation for the aircraft. However, how many aircraft are you looking at and where will they come from; within Nigeria or from West Africa? How many will you do every year that it will be economically viable? There are many things to consider. The total passenger traffic in this country is about 22 million, from about 26 airports while Johannesburg alone in South Africa has 22 million passengers annually from just one airport. Those states that are considering building airports should know what they are going into. Some of the states, like Anambra and Ekiti, said they want to do cargo to promote trade, isn’t that laudable? Where is the aircraft to carry the cargo? Right now after the COVID-19 lockdown has been eased, passengers are still not there. Before you get the pre-COVID-19 number of passengers, it would be around 2024 and 2025. So, I advised before the COVID-19 pandemic that they should go into cargo because there is a lot of cargo on the roads. Anambra is looking towards international cargo, but the question they should ask themselves is the volume of cargo in the country now. Like I told them, there are about 100 million tonnes on the road, and as of now, we are not even carrying half a million tonnes. Then, where are the aircraft and then let us see the volume of cargo they would carry between now and next year. Those who have the aircraft are not ready to carry cargo. They are still looking for passengers that are not there. As I speak to you, I just flew to Lagos from Abuja, and once the passengers are not there, there is delay so they can fill the plane. The way some of these things are outside is different from the way it is inside. There is also an explanation that the states want to embark on the project to open the state up to investment. Those states that have airports before now, what have they gained. What can these ones copy from them? Why are the states that have airports handing them over to the Federal Government? The same Federal Government is trying to concession its airports because the money is not there, yet you are handing over the ones you built to the Federal Government and now others are thinking of building theirs. Yet, they often don’t start it and finish it; the uncompleted project would keep moving from one administration to another. I have advised those who wanted to listen to find ways to work together. For instance, Ekiti wants to build an airport whereas it’s not so far from Akure, so my suggestion was that Ekiti should build an expressway and toll it. The same thing I suggested to the Anambra State government; that they should build a good road to Asaba or Enugu and toll it. The money they would make from that tolling is much more than what you would be making from the airport. And this is better than using the money you could have used to build classrooms and hospitals for building an airport that may not be viable. We have to find a way to be advising these governors. Akure Airport has about 100,000 passenger traffic in a year inbound and outbound, so outbound is about 50,000 passengers because those are the ones you can collect airport service charge from. Let’s even say they had 100,000 outbound. If you multiply that by N1,000, we are talking about N100m in a year. You will pay the staff you want to put there, the maintenance of the airport for it to meet up with the required standard, like the runway light and approach light. Like I said, I just came back from Abuja; the terminal didn’t have functional A/C. There was no single wall clock there. So, if you don’t have a wristwatch or a mobile phone, there will be nowhere to check the time. There are so many things wrong with our management. Those are issues we are fighting for. Some people have argued that we could have small airports that are not as big as MMIA to create employment, how about that? Is Akure Airport as big as MMIA or is Ibadan airport as big as Kaduna airport? That is not the issue. So, what I suggested and I hope they will agree with me is that they shouldn’t charge airlines going to Akure what they charge those in Lagos. I said categorise your airports into four; A, B, C, D. For example, from category A, you can collect N100, category B you can collect N75, category C you can collect N50 and category D you can collect N25. So, if you know you cannot pay the service charge in Lagos and Abuja, don’t go there. The airlines are accumulating debt when they don’t have the capacity for what they are doing. At the National Assembly recently, the Minister of Aviation (Hadi Sirika) told them the Federal Government would give airlines N5bn as an intervention fund. The committee said it was too small and I asked what the rationale behind that was. The minister pointed out that the airlines owed N19bn and $6m and you think N5bn is too small to give to them. They accumulate debt because they are doing much more than they could handle, so what should they do, categorise the airports into four so that if you cannot pay the charges in Lagos, you can go to Ibadan, Akure and smaller airports. Another thing that should be done is that foreign airlines should not be allowed to shuttle our airports. If you want to go to Lagos, then you should not go to Abuja. If an airline wants to go to Lagos 20 times a day, let it come, but don’t go to Abuja. If you want to go to Abuja 100 times a day, go there but don’t go to Lagos. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 