Temiloluwa O’Peters Officials of the Federal Government and the Ogun State Government have met with leaders of artisan associations in the state to ensure eligible Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises benefit from the N75bn MSMEs Survival Fund. The State Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment and State Focal Person for the Fund, Kikelomo Longe, addressed leaders of artisan groups registered by the Corporate Affairs Commission in Abeokuta, according to a statement issued by the ministry on Tuesday. Longe called on various MSMEs in the state to avail themselves the opportunity of benefitting from five different streams of fund which she listed as Payroll Support, Artisan/ Transport Grant, General MSMEs Grant, Formalisation Support and the Guaranteed Offtake Stimulus Scheme. She noted that the state was yet to fully utilise all its allocation for the Payroll Support and called on businesses that had CAC registration and met other requirements to take advantage of the support when the FG reopens the portal. Longe added that the formalisation stream was also calling on informal businesses in the state to utilise the opportunity to register their businesses as 250,000 businesses would be registered for free by the CAC through the stream. The commissioner stressed that registered businesses had a lot to gain as the state government was encouraging more small businesses registered by the CAC to bid for government contracts. According to her, the Artisan/Transportation Grant stream of the Survival Fund, which is a one-off payment to artisans who must be members of artisan associations registered by the CAC, is another stream available for artisans to benefit from. Longe further stated that the Survival Fund was real and based on a fair process which did not require any form of payment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     