John Alechenu, Abuja LOYALISTS of the All Progressives Congress under the aegis of Concerned APC members on Sunday renewed its threat to embark on a nationwide protest should the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-ordinary National Convention Planning Committee fail to announce a convention date within seven days. This was contained in a press statement titled, ‘Concerned All Progressive Congress group extends ultimatum to seven days’, signed by the group’s Spokesman, Abdullahi Dauda, in Abuja, on Sunday. Dauda announced that members of the group met and agreed to give the Buni-led committee an extension of one week following the suspension of its earlier 14 days ultimatum, which expired last Monday. The statement read in part, “The Concerned All Progressive Congress group has extended the ultimatum given to Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker committee to fix party convention date for November. READ ALSO: FG to spend N269.38bn on six million free meters “The group in a unanimous decision decides to extend its earlier 14-day ultimatum by seven days as a result of the party’s publicity secretary’s statement that they are working on the convention timetable last week. “We want to authoritatively warn that if no timetable is released within the next seven days, we will have no option than to embark on daily protest to draw the attention of Mr. President and party members on the elongation plot that will destroy the party we have labored for.” When contacted, Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena said, “The invitation to all aggrieved party members to come forward to meet with the party leadership is still open. This group or any other within our party is free to come for discussion. Our doors are open.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 