Despite the ratification of African Continental Free Trade Area agreement, Nigeria businesses’ readiness for the free trade opportunity is being impacted by the economic effect of COVID-19 pandemic, among others. IFE OGUNFUWA examines the issues Nigeria will become eligible to trade freely in products and services with 55 African countries once the instruments of ratification for the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement has been deposited with the African Union. As contained in Article 23 of the agreement establishing the AfCFTA, Nigerian will also be bound by the rules and procedures on the settlement of disputes on the day the instruments are deposited. The agreement stated that countries that have ratified the agreement would have to comply with protocols on Investment, intellectual property rights, competition policy, and any other instrument within the scope of this agreement. Already, the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, is preparing the instrument of ratification for the AfCFTA following its ratification by the Federal Executive Council on Tuesday. The National Action Committee on AfCTA said the instrument, when ready, would be signed by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) and transmitted to the African Union. The committee has also intensified sensitisation of sstakeholders in all sectors that will be relevant to the intra-African free trade. However, many Nigerian businesses are unprepared to take on the free trade opportunities in the AfCFTA that is billed to take off in January 2021, investigation has revealed. Despite the shift in the commencement date of the intra African trade agreement from July 1, 2020 to January 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it was gathered that many Nigerian businesses were still reeling from the impact of the pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has put pressure on the economy of Nigeria and other Africa countries and effort of the Nigerian government is currently geared towards the recovery of the economy and helping businesses to thrive. Trade experts in the private sector say there are no incentives from the government to encourage them to participate in the AfCFTA. According to them, the agreement is meant to be government-driven but there has been no communication on a clear-cut strategy, goals and priority areas from the Federal Government. They expressed fear that Nigeria could become a dumping ground for goods from other African countries if Nigerian businesses don’t actively participate in the AfCFTA. The AfCFTA aims to create a single continental market for goods and services in Africa, and allow free movement of people across borders. The Secretary General, AfCFTA, Mene Wamkele, estimated that with the combined African GDP of $2.5tn, the volume of intra-African trade could increase to over 50 per cent by 2030. Speaking with The PUNCH, the President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria’s Export Group, Chief Ede Dafinone, said exporters under MAN were presently not sufficiently encouraged by the government to prepare for the free trade deal. According to him, the payment of Export Expansion Grant, which is a major incentive for exporters, is not being honoured by the government. He stated that the EEG that had been successfully paid by the government was highly discounted, which amounted to a loss for exporters. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  