Raphael Ede, Enugu THE Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Nigeria, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, says the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is being fed with lies by the people he surrounded himself with. Mbaka also accused security men in Enugu State of killing and dumping several bodies of some #EndSARS protesters into the Onyeama valleys. The controversial Catholic priest, who disclosed this during his Sunday ministration, asked Buhari to apologise to the country, especially the youth, on behalf of himself and his predecessors, who had also caused Nigerians so much pain. Mbaka, while delivering a message titled, ‘Impure Heart’, at the 2020 All Saints Day Holy Mass, stated that pure heart begets pure spirit while impure heart begets evil spirit. READ ALSO: NCS begins probe of Lagos jailbreak, keeps mum on casualties He alleged that many youths were being detained in various correctional centres across the state and the country, declaring that it was rather the Nigerian leaders that should be in those correctional centres. Mbaka warned that the detention and extrajudicial killing of pro-Biafra agitators should cease forthwith, saying, “They should not touch any of those Biafra boys o!” Clarifying that his message was not targeted at any particular government or individual but bad governance in general, Mbaka added, “This is not about #EndSARS or IPOB. Nobody is fighting any government; we are fighting bad governance. “Few days ago, at Miliken Hill, after New Market, (in Enugu), people discovered corpses of those that were shot and killed during the recent protest. They dumped people’s corpses there while families of those young men and women continued searching for them. “That is why I am telling you that Nigeria can never be the same again. Did you expect these young men to keep watching the country being swindled and looted dry by the so-called leaders?” He said, “Buhari, who could have been a solution to this, succeeded in encircling himself with criminals and hooligans. People, who do not just tell him lies but rather, they magnify lies; lies with NAFDAC number – and feed him.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 