This is to inform the general public that the Oil and Gas Industries | Youth Empowerment Program (YEP) has commenced its Registration for the 2020/2021 Training and empowerment Program in Nigeria. The Oil and Gas Industries | Youth Empowerment Program (YEP) Registration portal is now accessible at https://yep.oilandgasindustries.com/ The Youth Empowerment Program (YEP) addresses the economic root causes of unemployment by supporting youth employment and entrepreneurship. The four-year program started in January 2008 and is funded by the Global Oil and Gas Enlightenment and Empowerment Initiative “Entrepreneurship is promoted among youths through business skills training and support programs. Targeted business support services are also provided to improve the performance and growth of youth-owned businesses. Simultaneously, YEP seeks to create employment opportunities along Nigeria value chains. Through developing enterprises and the Nigerian private sector as a whole the program aims to provide more and better quality jobs for youth. The project concentrates on sectors that have the largest potential for employment creation, such as agribusiness, engineering, services and tourism. Thriving agribusiness and service sectors offer job opportunities and lucrative career options. “Taking a value chain approach the program focuses on integrating micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) to value chains and connect them to markets arrangements for Capacity-Building and Technology Transfer Coordination mechanisms/governance structure. The Oil and Gas Industries| Youth Empowerment Program plans to train and empower 1000 persons from each of the 774 local government areas in the country. Eligibility for YEP · Applicants must be a Nigerian and must have the National Identification Number (NIN) · Applicants must be of the ages 18-35 years as presented on the NIN data submitted. · Graduates and Non-graduates can register. · Skilled and Unskilled Youths can also register Application Deadline
Application closes 12midnight of Tuesday, 22nd December, 2020.