Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan Former Ekiti State Governor, Mr Ayo Fayose was absent at a meeting of Peoples Democratic Party leaders in the South West on Thursday. Fayose and Oyo State Governor, Mr Seyi Makinde, have been at loggerheads in recent times and our correspondent gathered that the former Ekiti State governor was not at the meeting which was held at the Oyo State Government House, Ibadan. In a communique issued after the meeting by Makinde’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa, and approved Acting National Vice Chairman, South-West, Hon. Dayo Ogungbenro, Fayose’s name was missing as one of the leaders of the party in attendance. Former Osun State Governor, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, was appointed to head a five-man committee to reconcile aggrieved members of the party in the region to ensure unity and success in future elections. Other members of the reconciliation committee are: Mrs Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele, Ambassador Omolade Oluwateru; Chief Saka Balogun and Olayinka Kukoyi. Leaders of the party in the South-West called on the national leadership of the party to bring all aggrieved factions in the former ruling party together. The leaders, including the Oyo State governor, Makinde, Oyinlola, Chief Segun Oni as well as members of the Board of Trustees of the party, and party chairmen from the states. Mr Soji Adagunodo, who was recently reinstated as the PDP chairman in Osun State told our correspondent that he was part of the meeting as the chairman of the Osun State chapter of the party. The PDP leaders also called on the Federal Government and the National Assembly not to go ahead with the proposed clampdown on social media, saying the move would infringe on Nigerians’ freedom of expression. They called on the Federal Government to strengthen existing laws to prevent the abuse of the freedom of expression. Makinde, who presided over the meeting, said although the PDP lost the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State to the All Progressives Congress, what happened in Bayelsa State could still happen in Ondo. H said, “In Ondo State, during the last election, it is not as if the people of the state don’t like our party or candidate, it was the party structure that failed to do the needful all over, which made us be where we are currently. “But I believe in God and I will tell you why. We were in this same position in Bayelsa. The governor-elect was already rehearsing before they brought him a letter that he is going nowhere. If you know how to pray, keep praying because I know there is nothing God cannot do, even in Ondo State for PDP.”