Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Ebonyi State Commissioner for Inter-Governmental Affairs, Hon Lazarus Ogbee, has resigned his appointment with the State Government. Ogbee’s resignation was contained in a letter dated November 12, 2020, titled, “Resignation of Appointment As Honourable Commissioner,” a copy of which was obtained by The PUNCH, on Thursday night. The Commissioner’s resignation may not be unconnected to Governor David Umahi’s decision to dump the Peoples Democratic Party, a party under which he won governorship elections twice, to the ruling All Progressives Congress. A stalwart of the PDP in the state, who spoke to The PUNCH on condition of anonymity, on Thursday night, said Ogbee’s resignation was expected, adding that more Executive Council members would naturally follow suit, soon. The source said many of the EXCO members were not comfortable with the governor’s decision to defect to the APC, adding that, “apart from the governor, every other person in the government is looking for where his or her political fortune could be guaranteed”. The source further added, “We are not surprised that Ogbee resigned. He wouldn’t be the only one to do so. Many will still and soon join him. The last meeting of EXCO was an eye-opener. The Governor made it clear. He said anybody who is not comfortable with his going to the APC and not willing to follow him, should resign. So, that’s the result. Ogbee just started it.” Ogbee’s resignation letter stated, “I wish to inform his Excellency that I have decided to resign my appointment as the Honourable Commissioner for Inter-Governmental Affairs in the Ebonyi State Government, effective from today, Thursday, November 12, 2020. “The reason for my resignation is personal as I thank your Excellency for the opportunity given to me to serve as a Commissioner in the state. [READ ALSO] #EndSARS: We’ll be talking of something else had Buhari not acted like a father —Adesina “I equally thank the Peoples Democratic Party family and my colleagues in the Executive Council for the cordial working relationship I enjoyed while in office as a Commissioner. “Please be informed that the official car with Chassis No. KMH3813DLU109706, Model-Hyundai Tucson Jeep, Colour-Metalic Ash and other Government property attached to my office are to be duly handed over to the Secretary to the State Government with immediate effect. “May God bless you as we look forward to a better Ebonyi State.”