Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command said it had arrested seven suspects over the attacks on men of the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit. The officials had gone to the Second Rainbow area of FESTAC town and the Ikeja Along area on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, to enforce the state traffic law and impound motorcycles. However, the agency met resistance from the riders, who allegedly attacked some of the personnel. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Thursday, said seven suspects were arrested in connection with the incidents, adding that they would be charged to court to serve as a deterrent to people who were fond of attacking security operatives on lawful duties. Adejobi, who noted that the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, emphasised on the need to clamp down on traffic violators, said any act of lawlessness by motorcyclists and other violators would be resisted by security agents. “The CP has warned okada operators and other categories of violators to respect the law as any attack on police officers and other security agents and unleashing terror in the state will not be tolerated. Any act of lawlessness or crimes will be resisted by security operatives within the ambit of the law,” he added. Meanwhile, the command also arrested one Lateef Ajayi in the Victoria Island area of the state on November 18, 2020 for robbery. According to the police spokesman, Ajayi and his gang members had stolen a tricycle around 1am when they were challenged by the police. He said while other members of the gang fled, the suspect was arrested with a dummy gun. “On November 17, 2020, the policemen attached to Morogbo division, while on a patrol along Badagry Expressway, engaged a gang of traffic armed robbers in a gun duel. While one of the gang members fell, others fled. “The gang had earlier shot and injured one police corporal attached to the Police Border Patrol Team around the area and dispossessed him of his motorcycle. Items recovered from the gang included a locally-made gun with some live cartridges and the corporal’s snatched motorcycle,” Adejobi added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 