Ife Ogunfuwa Movement of people to retail and recreation centres, parks, public transport hubs, supermarkets and pharmacies declined significantly across the country in October, the latest Google COVID-19 Community Mobility report showed. The report published for Nigeria and 130 other countries showed whether visits to shops, parks and workplaces dropped towards the end of October, when many state governments declared 24 hours curfew to check the looting, killings and destruction of properties by hoodlums. The report, which examined mobility trends from September 13 to October 25, indicated that all over the country, movement of people to retail and recreation centres reduced by 38 per cent. Also, movement of people to parks, public beaches, marinas, dog parks, plazas and public gardens declined by 34 per cent. Findings showed that there was limited visit to public transport hubs, bus and train stations in October as Google reported 34  per cent decline in movement to these places. The report said movement of people to workplaces declined by 19 per cent during the period under review. Within the period under review, Nigerians moved more towards residential areas as there was  13 per cent increase in movement to places of residence. The report listed Abia, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Enugu, Imo and Kaduna as places where there was a considerable change in visits to places like parks and public transport hubs. Others are Lagos, Osun, and Plateau states. These states identified by Google also experienced increased movement around residential areas. The mobility trends for Lagos provided by Google indicated that visits by Nigerians to places like restaurants, cafes, shopping centres, theme parks, museums, libraries, and movie theaters had reduced by 55 per cent in October. This is as movement of Lagos residents to grocery markets, food warehouses, farmers markets, specialty food shops, drug stores, and pharmacies, national parks, public beaches, marinas, dog parks, plazas, and public gardens reduced by 37 per cent. Movement of people to workplaces declined by 20 per cent while movement around residential areas in Lagos increased by 20 per cent in the month under review. In Kaduna State, movement of people to recreation and retail centres declined by 48 per cent compared to baseline data, movement to grocery and pharmacy stores declined by 43 per cent; visits to parks reduced by 42 per cent; and visits to transit stations declined by 37 per cent compared to baseline data. According to the report, workplace mobility in Kaduna reduced by 30 per cent while movement around residential areas increased by 13 per cent. Google said it prepared the report to help Nigerian citizens and public health officials understand responses to social distancing guidance related to COVID-19. However, these trends aligned with reduced movement in some states where their governors declared curfew. Hoodlums took advantage of the two-week-long #EndSARS protests, which started on October 3, to cause mayhem across the country. The protests as well as the destruction of lives and properties by hoodlums affected movement of people and crippled economic activities in many cities. Lagos, Ekiti, Abia, Plateau, Osun and Edo are some of the states that declared 24-hour curfews to restore peace. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com