Daniels Igoni Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State has advocated the management of ecological funds by states and not the Federal Government from Abuja. Diri spoke at the Government House, Yenagoa, when he hosted members of the House of Representatives Committee on Ecological Fund. A statement on Saturday by the Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as expressing appreciation to the committee for the visit, saying Bayelsa State needed sufficient ecological funds, given its numerous environmental challenges. Diri said, “I appeal that if we want this country to develop, then we have to sit up as legislators so that at the end of the day, the executive arm will know that there is an arm of government that has been given that responsibility to oversight and ensure that there are checks and balances. “These ecological issues are actually in the states but ecological funds are in the centre and managed by people who do not know anything about the ecological problems. So when we talk about the ecological problems we have in our states, they do not understand.” Meanwhil, Diri has said that Wednesday’s Supreme Court’s final judgment, which dismissed the last batch of six appeals against him and his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, marked the end of the road for their political adversaries. He spoke during a victory thanksgiving service at the King of Glory Chapel in the Government House, Yenagoa, following the legal victory. The governor described the turn of events at the apex court where the six appeals against him and his deputy were struck out as clear indication of God’s supremacy in the affairs of men. He said, “Again, let me call on our political adversaries and not our enemies that although it is their constitutional right to do what they have done, they have however come to the end of the road. “Whatever they can do for our state, let them come on board. Our prosperity administration is still waving the olive branch, calling on them to join hands with us to advance the state together. “If Bayelsa State is developing, it is to our glory. So my dear members of the Prosperity Administration and, of course, our great party, the PDP, please still call on your brothers and sisters on the other side that it is not late.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 