Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigerian Institution of Surveyors and the Nigerian Institute of Builders have called for professionalism by operators in the built environment in order to halt building collapse cases across the country. At separate functions in Abuja, the professional organisations charged members and non-members of their organisations operating in the building and construction sectors to maintain highest professional standards in the discharge of their duties. Speaking at the 38th Annual Olumide Memorial Lecture, the President, NIS, Alabo Charles, made it clear that the goal of the institution was to maintain the highest standard of professional practice and conduct among its members. He stressed that based on this, members of the NIS were bound to discharge their duties in accordance with the tenets of the institution, as this would help curtail all forms of ills that cause disruptions in construction. On the theme of the lecture, which was, “Promoting the Culture of Peace and Tolerance in Nigeria,” Charles stated that it was chosen because Nigeria was currently challenged by so much violence in every sphere of its existence. “We can only contribute to a peaceful existence when we all understand that equity, justice and fairness are the hallmarks that accelerate peace,” he said. On his part, the newly elected Chairman of NIOB, Federal Capital Territory Chapter, Peter Omale, while speaking at the FCT builders conference and Annual General Meeting, declared the institute’s determination to address cases of building collapse. Omale observed that cases of building collapse across the country and FCT in particular had become a source of concern for the institute. He said, “We are also going to make the required advocacy and create awareness among builders. We are going to bring back pride in the building profession. I say this because a lot of builders address themselves as engineers, which is wrong. “We will explore modern technologies and e-building in enhancing professionalism in the sector. On building collapse, we are going to embark on massive training of builders to ensure that there is no case of building collapse in Abuja.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 