Temiloluwa O’Peters FMDQ Holdings PLC has unveiled Dangote Group, Chapel Hill Denham, the Securities and Exchange Commission, Corporate Affairs Commission, Stanbic IBTC Holdings, amongst others as winners of its 2020 Gold Awards. A statement issued by the company on Sunday said the awards were to acknowledge valuable efforts of financial market participants whose contribution in the FMDQ markets and across the financial market infrastructures positively shaped the course of the markets. According to the company, despite an exceptionally tough year in 2020, the awarded stakeholders had continued to play an all-important role in stabilising the economy at large, providing a viable avenue to raise capital, transfer value and manage risks. Acknowledging the finalists and nominees, and congratulating the awards winners, the Group Chairman of FMDQ Group, Dr Kingsley Obiora, noted that the year had been a challenging yet rewarding year. He said it was one which had stretched the resilience of the market and at the same time availed opportunities to deepen the markets. The Director-General of the SEC, Lamido Yuguda, commended the winners and stakeholders for their efforts at making Nigeria globally competitive. Represented by the Executive Commissioner, Operations, SEC, Temidayo Obisan, Yuguda reiterated the commission’s commitment to collaborating with stakeholders to define appropriate market structures, create an enabling environment, and ultimately reduce systemic risks. Expressing her delight at the innovative strides of the FMIs, including FMDQ, and other market participants, former Treasurer/Vice President at the World Bank, Arunma Oteh, congratulated the winners, nominees, finalists and other stakeholders for their positive contributions. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 