Dele Ogunyemi and Dennis Naku THE Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Col. Milland Dikio (retd.), has assured ex-agitators in the region that they would receive the payment of their N65,000 monthly stipend by 25th of every month. He gave the assurance in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Saturday during a meeting with the leadership of Phases 1, 2 and 3 of the PAP. Dikio, who is currently on a tour to the Niger Delta region, said there were too many bureaucracy in the system which often resulted in the incessant delays in the payment of the N65,000 monthly stipend. He said “The PAP is a programme that was designed especially for ex-agitators. If you are not an ex-agitator, you’re a stranger. I don’t see why it will be the other way. “Overtime, people have confused the programme for the package. They are different and it is good that you understand that, so that we can all be on the same page. “Since I came, I have been undertaken some reforms to ensure that we get it right. So, the issue of your monthly stipends will be paid every 25th of the month. It’s not rocket science. All that was needed to do was to put the accounting process in order.” Dikio appealed to the ex-agitators to work for the peace and development of the region by supporting the new direction and vision of the PAP under his watch. The leader of the first phase of the PAP, Pastor Ruben Wilson, said with the new vision enunciated by Dikio, there was every reason to believe that the programme would now run seamlessly. Amnesty boss woos Tompolo, others Meanwhile, Dikio also held an emergency peace-seeking meeting with some prominent leaders of the erstwhile Movement for Emancipation of Niger Delta, including Government Ekpemupolo (Tompolo). The meeting, it was learnt, became necessary following the recent threats from some stakeholders in the Niger Delta region to disrupt oil production. It was gathered that though Tompolo was not physically present at the meeting, he sent a high-powered delegation. Other former commanders of the defunct MEND at the parley, according to sources, were the Amayanabo of Okochiri in Okirika, Rivers State, King Ateke Tom, Victor Ben Ebikabowei aka Boyloaf and High Chief Ajube Bibopiri popularly called Shoot-at-Sight. It was learnt that though Tompolo was not physically present at the meeting, he sent a high-powered representative. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 