Temiloluwa O’Peters Ikeja Electric has commenced the rollout of over 106,000 prepaid meters to customers across different locations in its network. A statement issued by the company on Friday said the rollout was under the National Mass Metering Programme approved by the Federal Government, which took effect on Friday. It stated that the metering initiative was designed to ensure a seamless metering process that allowed customers register and be metered on the same day after following due process. According to the firm, beneficiaries of the programme would not be required to pay upfront for the installation of the meters. Rather, the modalities of cost recovery for the meters would be clearly defined and communicated to the beneficiaries. IE noted that the programme was part of the Federal Government’s effort to further bridge the country’s metering gap and cushion the effect of Service Reflective Tariff on electricity consumers in Nigeria. It stated that the initiative was also expected to assist in reducing collection losses, while increasing financial flows to achieve 100 per cent market remittance obligation of the DisCos. The statement said, “In line with this programme, IE is committed to driving the roll out through a series of one-day metering initiative across different locations in its network. “For the first phase of the programme, which will run till the end of the year, Ikeja Electric is rolling out over 106,000 prepaid meters to customers across its six business units of Ikeja, Abule-Egba, Akowonjo, Oshodi, Ikorodu and Shomolu.” Other objectives listed were elimination of arbitrary estimated billing, improving network monitoring capability and provision of data for market administration and investment decision-making. The company added that the programme would further strengthen the local meter value chain by increasing local meter manufacturing, assembly and deployment capacity, all in support of Nigeria’s economic recovery plan. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 