Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Federal High Court in Abuja, on Wednesday, fixed November 16, for hearing in a suit filed by the All Progressives Congress seeking the disqualification of Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, who contested the September 19th 2020 governorship election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. Obaseki won the election after defeating Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress, and 12 others in the keenly contested poll. Ize-Iyamu who said he would not challenge the outcome of the poll, however vowed to pursue the pre-election suit instituted against the governor to its logical conclusion. Going by antecedents, Ize-Iyamu, who scored the second highest number of lawful votes cast, if the suit jointly instituted by the APC and Edobor Williams, against Obaseki succeeds. The PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission were also joined as defendants. In the writ of summons marked FHC/B/CS/74/2020, the plaintiffs accused Obaseki of forging his university certificate presented to INEC in aid of his qualification for the governorship election in Edo State. They also claimed that there were discrepancies in the subjects Obaseki claimed he passed in his West African Examination Council examinations and those in his testimonial. They specifically prayed the court for an order disqualifying Obaseki from contesting the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State on the grounds that he supplied false information on oath to INEC, an act said to be contrary to Section 31(5) and (6) of the Electoral Act, 2010. The suit was originally filed on July 14, 2020 at the Benin Division of the Federal High Court, but was later transferred to the Abuja Division of the court. Justice Ahmed Mohammed fixed the hearing date for the suit which the APC jointly filed with one Edobor Williams. At Wednesday’s court sitting, the plaintiffs’ lawyer, Chief Akin Olujimi (SAN), urged the court to fix a hearing date, since the day’s proceedings were merely for mention of the case. While all parties to the suit except INEC were represented by the counsels during the days sitting. The matter was adjourned till November 16, 17 and 18. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 