Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Shell Petroleum Development Company for the registration and certification of Shell Graduate Programme and Shell Advanced Technical Programme by COREN. COREN stated that under the agreement, it would build capacity to regulate the competence standards and skill acquisition in the oil and gas sector. It said in a statement issued in Abuja by its spokesperson, Faith Ocheh, that the SPDC graduate programme would offer formal training that enhances the careers of young engineers. It noted that on completion of the SGP, trainee engineers would be enrolled in the SPDC Advanced Technical Programme. The council said the SATP was a structured development programme for Shell graduates and experienced technical professional hires. The Registrar of COREN, Joseph Odigure, was quoted in the statement as saying, “As a regulatory body, we have to liaise and cooperate with every organisation in Nigeria. “We cannot act effectively today if we do not develop an all-inclusive platform of engaging all stakeholders to build consensus in regulation.” The General Manager, Business and Government Relations, SPDC, Bashir Bello, said the oil firm had always ensured that it enhanced capacity building in its workforce. “So when we had this opportunity to structure some of our internal programmes for the development of engineers through our SGP and SATP in a way that it will receive COREN recognition and certification, we made the most of it,” Bello said. He added, “We will consider other areas beyond the SGP and SATP to support COREN and the nation in general to facilitate human capacity development in the engineering profession.” He said Shell truly believed that the MoU and the capacity building programmes would serve as an opportunity to expose young Nigerian engineers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 