Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, Prof. Jerry Gana were among the dignitaries that honoured the three-day Muslim prayers for the repose of the first executive governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa who died on Wednesday at age 84 in Kaduna. Others are former governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Mahmood Shinkafi, former Secretary to Kaduna State Government, Alhaji Lawal Yakawada, former executive director of NIMASA, Alhaji Gambo Mahuta. Musa died of heart-related ailment about 8.00 am on Wednesday and was buried the same day according to Islamic rites. At the three-day prayers on Saturday, the Katsina State governor, who was represented by his Deputy, Alhaji Manir Yakubu said the death of the former governor was a big blow not only to the family, Kaduna State but to the entire nation. Masari described the late Musa as a renowned politician with ideology and principles. On his part, former Zamfara State governor said the late Musa was a man of integrity and honour who lived a fulfilled life and served as the voice of the masses. Shinkafi while praying that God forgives the former governor’s sins, urged the youths to imitate the virtues of Balarabe Musa. This, he said, would pave the way for a sane and corrupt-free society thereby enhancing massive developments. Also, the former Secretary to the Kaduna State Government described the death of Balarabe Musa as an irreplaceable loss to the entire nation. Yakawada noted that Nigerian democracy was molded by the likes of the late Balarabe Musa. He also added that his concern for the welfare of the poor in society was unparalleled. The former SSG said, “The poor will miss him more, Balarabe had always believed in the ideology of putting the people first. “The likes of Balarabbe Musa molded the democracy we are enjoying today. Not only Nigerian democracy, Africa’s transition to democracy in recent decades, benefited immensely from Balarabe Musa, who had an in-depth concern for the underprivileged. “The concern for the welfare of the poor placed him above many Nigerian politicians, the indelible marks he left behind after his reign as governor are enough reasons to explain his genuine love for the people.”