Tony Okafor, Awka Tipper drivers in Anambra State have threatened protest over the alleged disobedience of the state government to a court order. The National President of the association, Emmanuel Ezeokafor, disclosed this at a press conference in Onitsha, Anambra State on Friday. He regretted that the harassment and extortions of his members had continued unabated even after a court had stopped the government from intimidating them in their business. He said, “It’s no longer news that the tipper drivers association had gone to court and won; and we have the documents. But it’s highly regrettable that the extortion had continued despite the court order. “We’ve even written to the Director of State Service, complaining about our plight but they feigned ignorance. But they will realize how serious we are the day we will block the highway again. “We could have done another protest if not for the #EndSARS protests. We felt that if we come out, they would mistake us for hoodlums. But we will seize this opportunity to fight this illegality until our plight is addressed. “We’ll only support the government activities that are legal. But forcing us to belong to where we don’t want to be will not be tolerated. A human rights activist and Convener, Recover Nigeria Project, Osita Obi, assured the drivers of his support. He said, “I support revenue drive, but not the one that’s obnoxious. The essence of revenue is for development, including road construction. “Unfortunately, the roads are in terrible condition because the money meant for the repairs is being diverted into individual pockets. “You can hold the government to ransom through your votes. You have what it takes to determine who becomes the next governor of Anambra State, not the contractors inaugurated by the government to lead you.” The state Commissioner for transport, Afam Mbanefo, did not pick calls put across to him by our correspondent for a reaction. Text message sent to him in that respect was yet to be replied to as of the time of filing the report.