The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the way we approach holidays and festivities in 2020. Already, this year’s December holidays have not exactly caused the merriment sparks to fly as most countries are currently experiencing a second wave of the pandemic, a sordid reminder that the virus is still very much around us. Yet, there is no doubt that the pandemic would not deter some merrymakers from making their traditional festive plans, albeit, within the safety guidelines stipulated by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Many still have plans to paint the town red while some are just planning to stock up the house, buy the latest fashion items, gadgets, take a trip to their favourite destinations and attend end-of-the-year events where possible. Others are planning to embark on voyages to their various country homes to celebrate with friends, families and relatives. Whichever category you fall in, make sure you keep 2021 in mind. By keeping 2021 in focus, you are likely to be cautious of the kind of year, 2020 has been, socio-economic wise. It implies that you would exercise restraint as you make imminent plans for the coming year. The whiff of the pandemic will still linger till the first quarter of 2021. Everyone experienced the anxiety, frustration and economic letdown that came with the pandemic first-hand, hence one ought not to be taken unawares again. The question now is how do we adequately prepare for 2021? The first thing to do when planning for a new year is to measure your results from the current year, identify the negatives and proffer smart financial management tools to deploy by January 2021. The COVID-19 inspired economic challenges must have taught everyone on the need to have an emergency fund as well as to learn basic money management skills to fall back on. At the risk of sounding cliche, one sure tool towards building a financial shock absorber in the coming year is to have a concrete savings plan. We can never overstate the importance of mastering this financial management technique. It is a technique that you must immediately employ the moment the clock welcomes the New Year. Asides the fact that saving money can help you pay for large purchases, avoid debt, reduce your financial stress, leave a financial legacy, and provide you with a greater sense of economic freedom, saving money will come to your rescue, in the event of a financial emergency. Once you start saving and do it diligently, your money will also start working for you. We understand that savings can be a tall order; therefore, competent, and experienced institutions rise to the challenge of proffering customised solutions to help you save conveniently, without any hassle. Leadway Assurance, a foremost insurer, which prides itself on insuring the happiness of individuals and businesses since 1970, has designed several safe ways to save for the future, with an innovative provision for life protection. In other words, the Leadway Savings Plan and Personal Savings Plan, among the range of products offered by Leadway assurance, assures that the sum of your targeted life cover benefit and contributions plus accrued interest will always reach named beneficiary(ies) should life happen to the policyholder. In other words, in the event that the policyholder during the policy term, dies, contracts a critical illness or sustains a permanent injury owing to an accident, a lump sum would be paid to beneficiary(ies) pre-selected by the policyholder. That is a Savings Plan with a legacy twist, right? That is how to secure 2021 before it unfolds. To get started, call Leadway Assurance professional advisors for further information via its virtual communication channels – 012800700, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from our experienced advisors by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me