The Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Dr Muda Yusuf, has said low yield on fixed-income securities is a threat to the real growth of pension fund assets in the near to medium term. Yusuf said this while addressing insurance and pension correspondents in Lagos. He said securities such as Treasury bills at around one to two per cent and rising inflation currently at 13.71 per cent were threats to the real growth of pension fund assets. The LCCI boss, who advocated the de-risking of the real sector to attract more investment opportunities, said given their low risk nature, a large chunk of pension fund assets were invested in Federal Government securities, majorly bonds. He said this was because in the pension guidelines, the Pension Fund Administrators were mandated to invest pension funds in low-risk securities, adding that fund managers had little exposure to volatile investment vehicles, and that six per cent of pension fund assets were locked in equities. Fund managers’ exposure to investment vehicles in the real sector was extremely low due to the high level of risk involved, according to Yusuf. He explained that just two per cent of pension assets was invested in real estate, and less than one per cent in infrastructure fund because fund managers often complained that projects in the real economy were non-bankable. On insurance industry investment portfolio, he said there was a need to maintain a balance between liquidity and returns on investment on bank placements, Treasury bills, commercial papers, bonds, equities and real estate. On the trend in Nigerian pension fund assets, Yusuf said pension fund assets had been on the upward trajectory in the last three years with assets under management rising by 42.9 per cent from N7.94tn as of March 2018, to N11.35tn as of August 2020. In 2020, according to him, pension fund assets had appreciated by 8.8 per cent to N11.35tn by end-August 2020 from N10.43tn by end-January 2020 amid very low return rates on government securities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  