Tenderd, which hails from Silicon Valley, California and headquartered out of Dubai, United Arab Emirates, has recently launched its rental management application, RentBook (www.rentbook.com) into multiple countries, including Nigeria. RentBook enables thousands of small and medium-sized businesses to take their business online easily, within a matter of minutes. Their rental assets can be made available online, and they can instantly share a catalogue with their prospective customers through social media or chat apps, without requiring their prospects to download the app. Upon receiving an inquiry from a prospect, an sms notification will be sent out to the business owner for further action. RentBook is available on Android, iOS and PC, and is fast gaining users from all industries such as real estate, construction equipment and car rental companies, as they use it to digitize their business in a couple of minutes. Features that make it extremely popular with users include free SMS payment reminders to customers, online cloud storage for receipts, and recording rental transactions. The application even caught the attention of the Equipment Leasing Association of Nigeria (ELAN), and RentBook is now working with ELAN to make training available for all their members. The arrival of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria has disrupted the way many people conduct their leasing and rentals business, with face to face interactions significantly reduced. In fact, many companies found that they could no longer operate in this ‘new normal’. It has become increasingly difficult to recruit new customers, as prospects do not permit visitations to their office in fear of the virus. The situation has created the worst possible environment for businesses to operate in. Communication with customers, tracking of rentals, as well as payment collections which have traditionally relied on paperwork and face to face interaction, have now been disrupted. This trend is most worrying as the rentals and leasing business, which is globally valued at US$2 Trillion per year are now expected to go into a state of decline. This will no doubt impact the job security provided not only to Nigerians, but the rest of the world. Regardless of the industry — construction equipment rentals, car and truck rentals and real estate; the threat of not staying competitive is increasing at every moment. Companies that do not do their best in adopting new technology quickly enough will go out of business. We have all heard about businesses going belly up during these trying times, and our friends losing their jobs. Companies already have to rely on a much leaner workforce and employees are expected to take on more responsibilities beyond their regular experience. Still, it often is not enough, without the use of technology. While platforms do exist out there to help companies manage their rentals business, they are often expensive and hard to use. Training a user can take many weeks. With such a steep mountain to climb, coupled with the lack of time; no wonder many small businesses are shying away. Some even consider it as a “luxury” they cannot afford due to the lack of time for experiments. Better to stick to what has been proven to work for others in the same industry, right? However, one has to remember that these are unusual times, with no playbook anyone can refer to. Like many other companies during the pandemic, Tenderd also saw a drop in its rentals business. However, we were fortunate enough to have been able to rely on our in-house technology platform to streamline our operations and growth. Within a matter of months, we were back to pre-pandemic levels of business. Soon, we even had our suppliers and clients asking us to aid their technological development so they can afford to stay in business. Owing our success in combating the pandemic through technological transformation, we wanted to help our equipment owners. This led us to the creation and launch of RentBook. RentBook was created through the feedback from thousands of equipment rental businesses Tenderd had worked with over the past many years. The application’s intuitiveness makes it easy to learn and the benefit is almost immediate. RentBook does more than just manage rentals. Just imagine what one can do when marketing, sales and even bookkeeping functions are available in a single app, and can be managed with just one person!  About RentBook: RentBook is the #1 rental management app for your rental business. You can now manage your assets, customers and payments in one simple platform. Use the RentBook rental application to manage all your rentals. Send unlimited free sms reminders to your customers, and store unlimited amounts of receipts in your app without getting it lost. RentBook is powered by Tenderd, an award-winning technology company from Silicon Valley, who counts on investors such as Peter Thiel (the founder of Paypal), and Y-Combinator. To learn more, visit http://www.rentbook.com You may also contact Samuel Akinrinmade to learn more about how the app can improve your business at +234 802 280 9311 or email at support@rentbook.com 