What brought you to the Edo State Judicial Panel of Enquiry set up to entertain petitions by victims of Special Anti-Robbery Squad, and related abuses? My husband was shot and killed by a policeman on February 13 this year at Tipper Garage, Benin City. How did it happen? My husband was a tipper lorry driver who delivered sand to construction sites. That morning, he left home early for work, hoping to come back home and give me money for the upkeep of the home. But few hours after he left, my pastor called me on the phone and told me my husband was in the hospital. I wasn’t told why he was admitted to the hospital but instead of taking me to the hospital, I was taken to my mother’s house. My brother who got the news earlier went to Tipper Garage to find out what happened and he was the one who brought back the sad news that my husband had been shot. I also gathered that there was a riot at the garage around the time my husband just returned from delivering a truck of sand to a site. He was eating at a nearby restaurant when he was killed by the police and they said his body was taken away. My brother-in-law went to the police station several times to ask for his body, but he was tossed around. Does it mean you have not found his corpse since then? However, on April 24, they told him to go to the mortuary. I also went to Egba Police Station and I was thoroughly insulted. They said my husband was one of those who fought on that day with dangerous weapons. But I told them that even the people that were there testified that my husband was eating at a restaurant. I also went to the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department with my mum but they said I was looking for money that I would use to take care of my four children. They killed my husband for no reason.  They later released his corpse to my brother-in-law. What else did the police say? They only told me that my husband was one of the people who fought during a protest against the killing of one of his colleagues simply called ‘Original’ turned into fisticuffs. But eyewitnesses said my husband was not one of the people that protested. Some said he was hit by a stray bullet and that the police threatened to shoot the people who wanted to help him. Unfortunately, he died on the spot. After going to the police over a period of time, they told my brother-in-law that my husband’s corpse was in a morgue after Egba. After you saw your husband’s corpse, did you go to the police to make a complaint? Yes, we went to the state CIID; that was when they accused me of looking for money to train my children. Then they told me to leave their office. How have you been able to take care of your children? When the incident occurred, I was interviewed by a local television station and that brought my plight to the public. People who watched the programme assisted me and that is how I have been able to keep them in school. How difficult has it been since he left? Since he died, it has been very difficult because my husband was the breadwinner of the family. It’s been difficult to get assistance from my late husband’s family. My mother-in-law only calls to find out how we are doing but never comes to see us. And my husband’s immediate brother does not even call, let alone ask after the children. What do you expect to gain from the enquiry? I want justice to be done. I will also want the panel to help me get help for me and my children because I want them to go to school. My late husband always said he wanted the best for his children and I will like to do this in his memory. The task is enormous and we can make do with some assistance. The government and kind-hearted members of the public can also help me so that I can boost my provision store. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   