Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Moshood Adeoti, an ex-Secretary to the Osun State Government during the administration of a former governor of the state and Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, on Friday announced his return to the All Progressives Congress. Speaking at his campaign office in Osogbo, Osun State, amidst cheers from his supporters, Adeoti said prominent APC leaders, including Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola; and Aregbesola asked him to return to his former party. Adeoti had resigned his APC membership, left Aregbesola’s administration and joined the Action Democratic Party. He eventually contested the 2018 governorship poll on the ADP platform and placed fourth, garnering 49,742 votes. The Iwo-born politician – who left the APC along with the then state APC Deputy Chairman, Alhaji Azeez Adesiji, and others – said he had directed his supporters to return to their wards and rejoin the APC. He said, “The result of the efforts of the likes of the former governor and pioneer National Chairman of the APC, Chief Adebisi Akande; immediate-past governor of the state and Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola and, members of the State Elders’ Forum, led by the former Secretary to the State Government, Chief Sola Akinwumi, is what we are all witnessing today. “I must not also go without particularly mentioning the numerous efforts made by the current state governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, who in spite of his very busy schedule, tirelessly mounted pressure on me and my supporters through telephone calls and personal visits to my residence in lwo, in company with the state APC Chairman, Prince Gboyega Famoodun, and the state APC Secretary, Alhaji Razak Salinsile, on the need for us to return to the APC, where he said we rightly belonged. “Efforts by former and serving state governors across the federation are also worthy of being mentioned.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 