Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the frailties of Africa today. It has shown just how weak many fabrics of our society are. Indeed, Nigeria and many Africa countries would need to brace up for a highly uncertain and competitive future that will be rapidly fueled by technology and all the disruptions that will most likely come with it. As someone who has been clamouring for the need to be more serious with technology and the digital economy, I honestly feel like we are not serious about the next generation. I am actually not referring to the government alone, this is also in respect to private organisations who are free to make decisions as they want, since they are more answerable to their shareholders and investors. However, to move forward in a post-covid world, we must begin to think of impact! Yes, make all the money in the world and become the most successful company in the history of Africa but also impact your immediate environment. The big question on my mind is, how can we get top executives and their organisations to begin to imagine a new Nigeria, where they would also impact their immediate environment more through various genuine and impact-driven corporate social responsibilities? Start-ups, in their numbers, have emerged and continue to emerge in their hundreds. Many have survived, independently, irrespective of poor institutions and infrastructure that have plagued the country but alas, many more that ordinarily would have survived, if the environment was more friendly, have died. In 2019, Nigeria and Kenya, ranked highest, as joint destination for start-up investment, with a total of 81.5 per cent in investment. Nigerian hubs, through their available workspace, have incubated a significant number of start-ups in the country, while leveraging technology to build indigenous services and solutions. Many of these start-ups have provided solutions, especially in the finance industry, (fintechs), agriculture, logistics and transportation as well as health. These solutions, I daresay are, purely, localised-based content, meaning that Nigeria has got the set skill and mentality to seek advancement in technology and apply same to solving the immediate needs within the country. Often times, I imagine what would have become of the ecosystem, if institutional funding is made available for the ecosystem. Can we ever get to the point of seeing more institutional funds being put out by corporate entities to support the further growth of the ecosystem? I read a report of students from Queens College that developed a waste bin that does not require the user to touch the bin’s lid. This is an example of an innovation, solving an immediate and daily challenge. Would any organisation rise up to support these sort of talents? The reality is that we have to make it part of our DNA to discover and support young talents in diverse fields such as science, technology, engineering, arts and social sciences. We simply need to build a culture and a system that shows and gives value. For example, how many other organisations are actively supporting the growth of the writing and literal culture apart from NLNG that has made its Prize for Literature annual award something that authors truly look forward to? I am happy that Systemspecs has taken it’s commendable CSR strategy a step further by supporting the growth of young writers and thinkers with SystemSpecs Children’s Day Essay Competition. The company announced winners of the 2020 edition of the Essay Competition. The competition was organised to create opportunities for children from ages 9 to 16 to share innovative ideas capable of driving the attainment of a sustainable, technology-driven economy in Nigeria which would be the pride of Africa and the envy of the world. Of the submissions of about 2,000 entries received within two weeks from over 500 public and private secondary schools across 29 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory, 11-year-old Onuoha-Okoro N. David of St Anthony Grammar School (Private) in Esure, Ijebu Imushin, Ogun state, emerged winner in the junior category, while 15-year-old Kalu Derrick Ugochukwu of Fosla Academy, Karshi, Abuja emerged in the senior category. This is a welcome development that should be continued because we owe it to the next generation. The general public is aware of organisations who spend hundreds of million of naira on musical festivals, paying celebrity brand ambassadors and all of that, which is not entirely out of place but such organisations sadly, have little or no investments in supporting and preparing the next generation. Granted, all organisations have the right to determine how and where to spend their resources but it is our responsibility to remind such organisations to think impact first as we go into a post covid world, that will be highly disruptive. Sadly, if the country burns due to poverty, hunger and youth restiveness, God forbid, there will be no way to make all the billions, such organisations plan to make. On a few occasions, I have referred to my dear country, Nigeria, as a sleeping giant. I remember making this statement on a forum and a few people attacked me saying that it is not a good way to refer to my nation and I responded why? The reality is that we have all it takes to drive our growth and development as a nation, but a number of factors hold us back. For those who still think we are not a sleeping giant, just try to think for a moment, what would give Ghana the impetus to demolish our diplomatic property? The answer to me is simple, nothing will happen! Can Nigeria ever truly lead Africa, not in terms of population but in terms of actual policies and developmental strides that remove embarrassing labels like the poverty capital of the world on us or advanced fee fraud merchants? We have a lot of work to do in ensuring that we change the course of downward trajectory. The time to support the next generation is now, not tomorrow! CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com