Nike Popoola Medical officers of the Lagos State Teaching Hospital have received personal protective equipment from Sunu Group to help protect frontline health workers against coronavirus. A statement from the firm said while receiving the donation, the Chief Medical Director of the teaching hospital, Dr Chris Bode, said the equipment came at a time when the hospital was almost running out of stock. Bode, who was represented by the Deputy Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, Clinical Services, LUTH, Dr Ayodeji Oluwole, said in the last few weeks, they had about 100 COVID-19 patients. He said, “We are really running short of these supplies of PPE equipment and Sunu Group has just donated them to us at a very good time. “I am sure the health workers will be praying for the company. The equipment is exactly what we need for frontline workers. “It is very important because we have a block with four floors and 120 beds. We have about 100 patients, meaning you need about 100 workers. They all have to wear these PPE, and they go in to check on the patients like four to five times a day.” Bode added, “Before you know all these will be consumed between two to three weeks. It is something you use and incinerate. “So, it is a very timely donation and we are appreciative of it because this is what we really need now. We thought the pandemic was going to last for like four weeks but this is the second month. “If you count February, this is the third month. So, it is something that we need more from well-meaning donors like Sunu Group.” The Managing Director, Sunu Assurance Plc, Mr Samuel Ogbodo, said the company was happy to donate very important consumables, masks, goggles and overalls to help in protecting health workers in the front line. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 