Tobi Aworinde Nobel laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka, has raised the alarm over some “cynical” persons in positions of influence that are taking advantage of democracy in the country to the detriment of the people. Soyinka said this during a webinar on Friday titled, ‘June 12: Learning from the Past, Shaping the Future,’ which was organised by the Lagos State Government in commemoration of the Democracy Day. The literary icon, speaking on the aftereffect of the COVID-19 pandemic, stated, “I’m not a prophet and, therefore, I will not speak about how the world will look like after COVID-19. I leave that to the scientists. Obviously, there will be some marvellous scientific innovations, which will carry over from the way we have learnt to cope with this particular manifestation. “But what concerns me, really, is the human lessons that we derive from that affliction, especially on a day on which we are celebrating independence, liberation, democracy, etc. and that is simply eternal vigilance. “We must be very careful and watch because there are very cynical people who now manipulate this idea of a more (democratic society) in their own interest, rather than in the interest of the people, and, most especially, at a critical time when humanity appears so helpless.” He reminded the youth that “this is their world” and advised them to “stop being coy and unadventurous,” adding that young people “must stop thinking like the older generation.” The laureate said, “The older generation, many times, in most cases, do not have new ideas. They are still living in a different age from the technological age, for instance, and it’s essential that young people utilise what I call their modernistic skills in looking at their society and their priority is to think how to modernise their society.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 