Nike Popoola The Lagos State Commissioner for Finance, Dr Rabiu Olowo, has said the state has deployed strategies to keep its finances intact in spite of the devastating effect of COVID-19 pandemic on the economy. He spoke while giving the ministry’s scorecard at a ministerial press briefing on Wednesday to commemorate Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s one year in office. “Though the direct impact of the pandemic is a drop in the state’s internally generated revenue and federal allocation, potential decline of foreign direct investment and increased pressure on income and purchasing power of Lagosians, the state government had in swift response re-ordered the 2020 budget and re-prioritised its capital expenditure to reflect current realities,” Olowo said. He said the state achieved 106 per cent performance in the first quarter of 2020 in terms of revenue target. “However, with COVID-19 pandemic and dwindling oil prices as a twin shock to Nigeria, we expect that the revenue numbers will be affected, hence the need to review the Y2020 budget assumptions,” he added. The commissioner said another strategy already adopted by the government to manage the impact of the pandemic was principal and interest moratorium for small and medium-scale enterprises with loans from the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund. Others strategies included the extension of tax filling, management and control of dedicated funds for COVID-19 response, including timely payment of hazard allowance, and arrangement of special peril insurance for frontline health workers and volunteers. Olowo noted that the restructuring of all existing internal loan facilities, previously at the rate of 18 per cent, 20 per cent and 14 per cent, brought about huge savings on the state’s loan repayments, thereby increasing cash flows. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 