Ife Ogunfuwa The BBC World Service is partnering MTN Nigeria to deliver ‘BBC News Minute’ to subscribers of the MyMTN App. According to a statement announcing the partnership, this is the first time an international news organisation would feature in the MyMTN App. It described BBC News Minute as the BBC’s 60-second news round-up that kept audiences across different demographics up-to-date with what was trending and the latest local and global news. It said audiences would be able to enjoy on-demand BBC News Minute at various intervals during the day and night and would showcase the latest news in sport, tech, entertainment, science. According to the statement, the partnership will serve Hausa, Igbo, Pidgin and Yoruba audiences looking for curated short-form news and bring BBC News Minute in local languages to the fingertips of customers in Nigeria. Commenting on the partnership, the Head of West Africa Languages, BBC World Service, Oluwatoyosi Ogunseye, said, “This partnership with MTN is at the core of the BBC’s commitment to reaching audiences wherever they may be. “It is one of the ways in which the BBC is demonstrating its commitment to Nigeria, and we are thrilled about this new engagement with young audiences in this country.” The Chief Digital Officer, MTN Nigeria, Srinivas Rao, said, “We are proud of this partnership. It is one of the ways we offer young Nigerians more channels to consume relevant information. “In an era where fake news spread easily, especially through social media, credible platforms like this make a lot of difference.” The General Manager, Customer Experience, MTN Nigeria, Kolawole Oyeyemi, said the alliance was a demonstration of the company’s passion to deliver the best customer experience possible to customers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 