John Charles, Makurdi The Federal High Court in Makurdi, Benue State, on Thursday, said the wife of a lecturer standing trial for the rape of 13-year-old Ochanya Ogbanje, Mrs Felicia Ochiga-Ogbuja, had a case to answer. Felicia, 43, was arraigned by the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons on two counts in a suit marked: FHC/MKD/CR/12/209. Felicia, an employee of the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo, who had made a no case submission,  is standing trial for detaining Ochanya and not taking action when her husband, Andrew, and son, Victor, were sexually exploiting her. The charges read, “That you, Felicia Ochiga-Ogbuja, 43, of the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo, Benue State, between 2014 and 2018, in Ugbokolo, Benue State, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did omit to take action against the sexual exploitation of one Elizabeth Ochanya Ogbanje, 13, by your husband, Andrew Ogbuja, and your son, Victor Ogbuja, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 13 (4) (b) of the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act, 2015. “That you, Felicia Ochiga-Ogbuja, 43, of the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo, Benue State, between 2014 and 2018, in Ugbokolo, Benue State, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did keep, detain or harbour one Elizabeth Ochanya Ogbanje, 13, knowing that she is likely to be sexually exploited by your husband, Andrew Ogbuja, and your son, Victor Ogbuja, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 15 (b) of the Trafficking in Persons Prohibition Enforcement and Administration Act, 2015.” When the charges were read to her, Felicia pleaded not guilty. The trial judge, Justice M. O. Olajuwon, who ruled on the no case submission, held that the prosecution had provided substantial evidence to warrant the defendant to enter her defence. He stated, “The prosecution in this matter has put substantial evidence before the court to warrant the defendant to enter her defence. “Consequently, the defendant’s no case submission is hereby dismissed.” The court, thereafter, adjourned the case till July 27, 2020, for Felicia to open her defence. It will be recalled that the prosecution counsel, Mr Ja’afaru Ayitogo, called six witnesses, including Dr Babarinde Ojo, a consultant pathologist at the Department of Histopathology, Benue State University Teaching Hospital, Makurdi. Andrew, a senior lecturer at the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo, and his wife are standing trial for the alleged rape of Ochanya, who was living with them. Ochanya died on October 17, 2018, due to complications from the alleged sexual molestation she suffered in the hands of Andrew and his son, Victor, a final year student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi. Victor is still at large. Andrew and Felicia were remanded in the Makurdi Correctional Centre, while Victor has not been officially declared wanted. When Ochanya’s death became known, it provoked national outrage and demonstrations across the country with calls by human rights activists for the arrest and prosecution of Andrew and his son. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 