Samson Folarin A governorship hopeful in Ondo State, Olayide Adelami, has said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has improved the ease of doing business in the country. Adelami, in a statement, however, regretted that Ondo State was ranked 37th in the country in the World Bank Fourth Sub-national Report under ‘Doing Business  in Nigeria’. This, he claimed, was an indication that the state government had not been paying attention to the state’s economic development. He noted that the state was too blessed with abundant human and natural resources to be the worst place to start a business in Nigeria. The governorship aspirant under the platform of the All Progressives Congress, however, hailed Buhari for improving the nation’s ranking in the 2020 World Bank Doing Business Report, which indicated that Nigeria climbed 39 steps from where it used to be in 2015. “Within the past five years when President Buhari came onboard, Nigeria’s business landscape has witnessed significant improvement, making it easier for micro, small and medium enterprises to operate in the country despite the challenging business environment,” he added. “According to the World Bank Doing Business Report, Nigeria was ranked 170 in the ease of doing business ranking in 2015, but stood at 131 among 190 countries assessed in the 2020 doing business ranking. This means that Nigeria has climbed 39 steps since President Buhari assumed office,” he said in the statement. The former deputy clerk in the National Assembly also commended Buhari’s tax reforms and other initiatives of the regime, saying they impacted positively on the country’s business environment. The retired bureaucrat expressed hope that the newly introduced visa-on-arrival system for business visitors and Africans would not only be beneficial to the Nigerian economy, but also to sub-nationals. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 