Milk is an important part of a healthy balanced diet; an excellent source of vitamins and minerals. It is a versatile ingredient that can be incorporated into everyone’s daily meal routine either drinking it alone or as an accompaniment for cereals and beverages. It’s also the major ingredient in the production of yoghurt, cheese, butter, dairy creams and lots more. Arla Foods a farmer-owned dairy company that has been providing quality dairy for over 100 years and the maker of Dano milk and other Arla-branded products entered a partnership with Kaduna state government in 2017 to assist in developing dairy farming capacity, in line with the objective of FGN. This is being done by helping 400+ mid to small-scale farmers in several clusters to grow and succeed with their dairy farms, in order to aid the provision of quality dairy products and create better livelihoods for themselves. Today, several farmer cooperatives in Amana, Kagarko, Damau, and individual farmers in NAPRI and Zaidi farms have benefitted from support in milking equipment, sources of water and energy, and feed programme with more cooperatives being discussed. There is an ongoing off-take of local fresh milk and processing at the Kaduna dairy plant, with finished products sold as fresh milk and 100% natural yoghurt under the brand name Milcopal.  Therefore, at Milcopal, June 1st – World Milk Day isn’t just any other day. It’s a day where we celebrate the importance of milk and the nutritious value it adds to the society. This year marks its 20th anniversary, and we’re excited to join countries and brands all over the world to celebrate Milk as we come together to raise a glass to good nutrition. “Developing the local dairy sector is an important part of our business in Nigeria. We’re proud to work together with local farmers to create a viable and sustainable business to bring the goodness of dairy to consumers” Peder Pedersen – Nigeria Director, Arla Foods Powered by the public-private partnership between the Kaduna State Government and farmer-owned Arla Foods, we remain strongly committed to developing the dairy value chain that ensures every home enjoys the amazing benefits of Milk from grass to glass. 