Johnny Edward Odion Ighalo’s goal for Manchester United against Norwich City in the FA Cup on Saturday means that the ex-Nigeria striker has equaled a club record of 95 years. In netting against the Canaries, Ighalo became only the second player in the club’s history to score in each of his first four competitive starts for the Red Devils. According to Opta, the previous player to do this was Jimmy Hanson, who achieved the feat in 1925, when he scored in consecutive starts against Hull City, Blackpool, Derby County and Aston Villa. Despite his immense scoring record in matches in which he’s started for United – all of which have been in cup competitions – the striker is yet to score in the Premier League for the Red Devils. He has made six appearances – all from the bench – amassing 83 minutes of action back in the topflight. Wilfred Ndidi featured for all 90 minutes in Leicester City’s 1-0 loss to Chelsea, who cruised to the semi-final of the FA Cup. His compatriot, Kelechi Iheanacho, was an unused substitute for the game. Bukayo Saka featured for the entire duration as Arsenal remain in the hunt for silverware to brighten their underwhelming season with a 2-1 win over Sheffield United in Sunday’s FA Cup quarter-final on Sunday. The game was Saka’s 33rd of the season. In the English Sky Bet Championship, Leon Balogun missed Wigan Athletic’s 2-0 home win against Blackburn Rovers at the DW Stadium on Saturday. It was the second straight game the defender was missing since the restart of the football season. Balogun has featured in six games for the Latics since his arrival from Brighton in January. At the Valley, Eberechi Eze was on for 90 minutes in Queens Park Rangers’ 1-0 loss to Charlton Athletic. Bright Osayi-Samuel played for 71 minutes before he was replaced by Aramide Oteh. Eze has now played 40 matches in this campaign for QPR across all competitions, scoring 12 goals and providing eight assists. Midfielder Ovie Ejaria played for 82 minutes in Reading’s 2-1 away defeat at Derby County. Ejaria has scored thrice in 34 league games for the Royals this season. In Spain, Samuel Chukwueze was on from start for Villarreal, who beat Valencia 2-0 at the Estadio de la Ceramica on Sunday to stay unbeaten since the LaLiga restart. Chukwueze, who was subbed off in the 89th minute for Javier Ontiveros, has made 31 appearances this season in the Spanish topflight division. The Yellow Submarine are currently fifth, three points behind fourth-placed Sevilla. In Germany, Anthony Ujah ended his 15-game goal drought as Union Berlin thrashed Fortuna Dusseldorf 3-0 in their final Bundesliga game of the season at the Stadion An der Alten Forsterei on Saturday. Ujah last scored for Union Berlin in the Bundesliga in the 2-1 home win against Borrussia Monchegladbach on Saturday, November 23, 2019. Ujah opened score for the home team in the 26th minute after he was set up by Joshua Mees. The Nigeria forward later set up Christian Gentner for Union Berlin’s second goal of the game six minutes before the hour mark. Ujah netted three times in 24 appearances for his club during the 2019/20 campaign. The 29-year-old was replaced by his compatriot Suleiman Abdullahi in the 62nd minute. Abdullahi scored the third goal in the 90th minute. It was Abdullahi’s first ever Bundesliga goal for the club. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 