Prominent Nigerians including actress Omotola Jalade Ekeinde, former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Lamido Sanusi, among others across Africa, have condemned the death of George Floyd, a black American killed by police brutality in the United States. According to All Africa, the coalition of African singers, artists, academics, journalists, civil society, and business leaders, touched by the tragic killing of Floyd issued a solidarity statement condemning the attack. Cameroonian ex-football star, Samuel Etoo, and other top celebrities across the continent also signed the statement. The death of Floyd has continued to spark outrage globally, especially in Africa and the Americas. In the statement issued in Dakar, the Senegalese capital and signed by the leaders was entitled ‘Africans in Africa and Around the World in Solidarity With African-American Sisters And Brothers’. The statement read, “In these strange moments of uncertainty and fear, the news from America has broken our hearts. We cannot remain silent! We cannot remain deaf and blind to the plight of our African-American brothers and sisters. We are shocked by the brutal murder of George Floyd by police officers. “The unbearable sight of George Floyd suffocating under the knee of a police officer in uniform looks like a return to the dark ages. George Floyd’s agony and death crowns a long litany of screams and supplications, adding one more atrocity to a chain of brutalities and racist killings. — It has revived in us the old wounds of our souls and summoned painful, shared memories. “Africans on the continent and around the world are grateful to African Americans and black leaders, writers, and thinkers for sharing with our elders the emancipatory idea of Pan-Africanism and for being connected with our struggles against colonialism and, of course, apartheid. “No, we cannot remain silent with the cruel killing of George Floyd and the cries of citizens, black and brown and white, in the streets of cities in America and in other continents, declaring to the world that Black Lives Matter. “We are a 1.3 billion strong nation stretched out over a whole continent, and with you in the African Diaspora, we are millions more. Together we can build the global African nation. It will be our nation, and we will name squares and schools after the countless other heroines and heroes of African descent. In memory of our common ancestry, the new Africa will be conceived as our common home. “We cannot remain indifferent because we have so many projects to initiate. One common element of our societal (and economic) project will be to revisit together — with courage and honesty — our shared history. But we will go beyond the recent history and look at the Africa we lost. Our history did not begin with the tragic period of slavery. “We the people of Africa are one people, and one nation – 1.3 billion strong,” say a group of African singers, artists, academics, journalists, civil society and business leaders in a solidarity statement with African Americans.”