Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The family of a seven-year-old boy, Adamu Haruna, is in despair about his whereabouts after he went missing while playing in the Kagini area of Abuja. Our correspondent learnt that the incident happened on Friday, June 19, 2020. PUNCH Metro was told that efforts by the family to find him, including visits to the neighbouring communities, were abortive. His uncle, Aliyu Usman, said the family also printed fliers with his picture on them, adding that no one had contacted them yet. He said, “Adamu’s father died last December and I went to the village in January to bring Adamu to Abuja so that I can take care of him and he can continue his studies here in Abuja, but because of the lockdown, he hasn’t started schooling. “I was at work last week Friday when my wife called that she couldn’t find Adamu and that she had looked for him in the area. She said Adamu was playing inside the compound and she later discovered that he was no longer there; so, I told her to check the Islamic school he attends and she went there but he was not there. “On Saturday morning, we mobilised people alongside the vigilante group to search for him, but all to no avail and on Sunday, we went round again up to the Kubwa area, showing people his picture, but nobody admitted seeing him. “He has never gone out like this before, but of late, I noticed that he liked to be on his own and that he was always withdrawn; and whenever I asked him what was wrong, he would say nothing. If Adamu decides to keep mum, he won’t say anything no matter how much you pester him. “I have called my father to help inform Adamu’s mother that we can’t find him, but he said we should resort to prayer so that God will bring him out from wherever he may be.” Our correspondent learnt that the matter was reported at the Gwagwa Police Station. The Police Public Relations Officer, FCT, Anjuguri Manzah, who confirmed the incident, stated that efforts were being made to find the boy and reunite him with his family. “It is true that the boy went missing; investigation is ongoing and the police are trying to reunite him with his family,” Manzah stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 