On June 18, 2020, one of Nigeria’s leading digital media platforms, Instablog, reported; “Lagos flood wreaks havoc on the house of music executive, Ubi Franklin”. The report displayed a video posted by Mr. Ubi, famed for promoting Music Superstars like Iyanya and Tekno, showing a flooded apartment from the early morning downpour. He said the roof of his house was blown off, leaving the POP ceiling soaked as rain poured directly into a guestroom and other parts of the house. Punch also reported that as the rampaging floods overwhelmed residents across Lagos Metropolis, there were cases of collapsed buildings, death, missing persons and damaged properties. For many residents in Lagos, the floods added to an already bad situation – an economic uncertainty and COVID-19 health pandemic that is already impacting their financial wellbeing. Though social media comments suggest residents were outraged and surprised about the rains and consequential flooding, this, however, was a natural peril foretold since January 2020. Earlier this year, the Lagos state commissioner for environment and water resources, during the 2020 Seasonal Rainfall Predictions, announced that Lagos would experience a rainy season of about 240 to 270 days. That is 270 days out of the 356 days of the year. With a history of perennial rainfall and flooding in the country, how often do you look out for Seasonal Rainfall Predictions and how prepared are you? Here are some questions you must answer to ascertain your level of preparedness: Is your home safe? You need to take steps to re-evaluate if your home is in an area that has a high or remote risk of flooding. Whether you are in the know or not, there are measures you can take to reduce the risk of damage to your home and properties by installing specially-made flood doors or by raising the door thresholds, to keep water from flooding your house. You can also fix the floors, reinforce the roofs, unclog drainages, and pipes to create a free passage of water around the house. Are your appliances safe? There are steps you can take to make your properties, especially electrical devices at home and for your business, to be flood resilient. To reduce the chance of trapping water in the building, you might want to lay tiles on the floor instead of carpets. Also, it is safe to raise your electrical sockets, fuse boxes, and wiring above the floor, while mounting appliances far above the floor level and by placing them on high shelves. This step will help ensure that cablings, sensitive part of the appliances are not exposed to liquid in the event of a flood, which could result in damages or electric shock hazards. Are you covered? The best way to protect yourself and loved ones from flood and the damage it causes is to get an insurance cover. A good insurance policy from a credible insurer will ensure you are protected, come what may. Leadway Assurance, a foremost insurer in Nigeria, with over five decades of unbeatable excellent service delivery, can help you recover from such natural disasters through its claims payment. It is worthy to note the insurer paid over N136 billion in claims over the last six years to its policyholders. With the Leadway Householder Insurance Policy, for instance, there is comprehensive cover for you, your loved ones, your home, and household contents against financial loss to fire, flood, burglary, lightning, thunderbolts, strikes, and other special perils. But most importantly, you do not have to be a homeowner to be able to access this product because it is available to both tenants and landlords. To speak to our professional advisor today for additional guidance via our virtual communication channels – , Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter, visit www.leadway.com/householder-cover or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com.