Peter David, Benin An aspirant in the forthcoming Peoples Democratic Party governorship primary election, Mr Gideon Ikhine, has stepped down, declaring support for the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki. Ikhine, who declared his support for the governor at his campaign office in Benin City, said, “Governor Godwin Obaseki is a prayer-answered for the PDP.  We might have a common vision but the means of achieving them may be at variance but God has brought them to reality.” Urging his supporters to back Obaseki for  re-election, Ikhine said, “We want to ask for your support and to ensure that everyone that has worked with us across the state redoubles their efforts in ensuring that the margin of victory between the PDP and the opposition is wider.” On his part, Obaseki promised that his administration would continue to prioritise the welfare and well-being of all Edo people. He added, “PDP is Edo and Edo is PDP. Together, we shall bring Edo to where God has destined it to be.” Group apologises              Meanwhile, a group, the Edo Youths and Women United, has apologised to the people of the state and the African Democratic Congress for the error of judgment in picking the ADC governorship form for Obaseki. The group, in a statement, accused the governor of betraying the trust of members, saying it had withdrawn its support for him, with sincere apologies to ADC members and the people of Edo State. The statement read in part, “It was to stop the corruption, impudence and cruel godfatherism that has persisted in Edo politics that we the Edo youths and women United decided to procure the ADC Governorship form for Governor Obaseki. But we are disappointed by the decision of the governor to continue the godfather politics.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 