Nike Popoola The Lagos State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, has said the state will commence the expansion of roads at Demurin, Agidi and Church Streets, Alapere, in Kosofe Local Government areas of the state. During a stakeholders’ meeting on the expansion of road which some representatives of residents of the region in Lagos, he said this would ensure movement and ease traffic in the region. Salako said, “That this is coming immediately after our discussion with the people of Eti-Osa on the regional road project which greatly underscores the courage and doggedness of our administration. “This is our culture towards the achievement of a greater Lagos through improved road infrastructure for social and economic transformation of the state in collaboration with the respective communities as partners in progress. “We are proud to reiterate that you Lagosians have all provided the enabling environment for us to record the many progressive feats towards achieving the Themes agenda.” He said the state had always worked diligently to ensure that the people were part of the success story as they took ownership of public projects. According to him, this is another opportunity for stakeholders in Alapere and entire Kosofe LGA to cooperate with the state for the successful execution of Demurin, Agidi and Church Streets road expansion project. He said the project had been conceived as a solution to the perennial traffic gridlock experienced by motorists along Ketu-Mile 12 axis of the Lagos-Ikorodu Road. “Upon completion, these roads will boost the socio-economic development of this area in particular and the state in general,” he said. He added that the project would make demands on residents’ ability to accommodate growth and urged them to make needful compromise and remove impediments in the Right of Way. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com