Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A 36-year-old father of five, Fatai Oyedele, was arrested on Wednesday after a failed suicide attempt. Oyedele, who is a cloth seller, was rescued from the Ogun River in the Akin-Olugbade area of Abeokuta around 1.15pm. He reportedly left his residence at the Tourist Estate, Obere, Atan Ota in the Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State for Abeokuta to commit suicide. He was also caught with a bottle of an insecticide during the attempt to end his life. The reason for his action was not known as of the time of filing this report, but Oyedele was taken to the Adigbe Police Station. The Public Relations Officer of the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the incident. Akinbiyi said in a statement that Oyedele was pulled out of the water by TRACE personnel with the support of some residents of the area. He added that the man was later handed over to the personnel of the Adigbe Police Station. Akinbiyi stated, “The victim is one Fatai Oyedele of the Tourist Estate, Obere, Atan Ota, Ogun State, who is 36 years old and has  five children with Jumai Oyedele. He is a cloth seller. “Around 1.15pm today (Wednesday) by the Ogun River en route Akin-Olugbade, the man attempted to commit suicide by jumping into the river with a bottle of insecticide in his hands. “Our prompt intervention saved what would have been an eventual suicide and with the help of some civilians at the scene, he was rescued. “He was pulled out of the water and was later taken to the Adigbe Police Station for further investigation.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, described Oyedele as a psychiatric patient. Oyeyemi said the man was violent when he was brought to the Adigbe Police Station after the failed suicide attempt. The PPRO stated, “The man is suffering from psychiatric problems. He was violent at the Adigbe Police Station. “We have released him to his family members, who came for him. They have taken him to the psychiatric hospital for treatment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 