Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt THE Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company has denied that it plans to sack 120 of its workers. The Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies had claimed on Saturday that PHED planned to sack some of its members SSAEAC added that 80 per cent of those that had been pencilled down for sacking were from Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa States. But PHED, in statement signed by its Manager, Corporate Communications, Mr. John Onyi, and issued in Port Harcourt on Monday, expressed surprise over the claim. The distribution company said the union failed to take advantage of its open door policy to verify the report credited to them. Onyi said, ‘’The allegation of the union is very surprising to us because we are not aware of any move by the management to sack over 120 staff members and we wonder where such news is coming from. ‘’Management is particularly surprised because the management of PHED has repeatedly offered a hand of friendship and an open door policy to dialogue with the union in the pursuit of the shared objective of promoting the welfare of our staff.” He added, ‘’The union did not take advantage of this open door policy to verify the unfounded reports credited to them. The management in recent times reviewed the organisational structure where all staff were strategically aligned for improved service delivery. ‘’This move was intended only to streamline the workforce for value optimisation. There is no iota of truth to the suggestion of staff downsizing at this time.” On condition of service forwarded to the union, Onyi said the company expected the cooperation of the union in activating the service conditions formally as management had always focused on the welfare of its staff. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 