Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a couple after the wife, Tomisin Onyeokweni, allegedly stripped her husband’s ex-lover. The incident happened in the presence of Tomisin’s husband, Osas. The couple allegedly lured the 20-year-old victim into an uncompleted building, where the wife, who was armed with a pair of scissors, cut her dress into pieces and left her naked. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said this in a statement on Monday. Oyeyemi said Tomisin, with the help of her husband, also inserted a bottle in the victim’s private parts. He added that the victim incurred Tomisin’s wrath for being her husband’s lover before they got married. The police spokesperson said the couple were arrested following a complaint by the victim, who reported at the Agbara Divisional Headquarters that Osas called her on the phone to meet him somewhere in the Lusada area for an important discussion. He added that the couple also took photographs of the victim’s naked body and threatened to upload the pictures on the Internet if she dared to report it to anybody. Oyeyemi said the suspects admitted to committing the crime and regretted their actions. He stated, “The couple were arrested following a complaint by the victim, who reported at the Agbara Divisional Headquarters that her former boyfriend, Osas Onyeokweni, who is now married to her friend, Tomisin, called her on the phone to meet him somewhere in Lusada for an important discussion. “She further stated that on getting to the agreed place, she met Osas and his wife, who lured her into an uncompleted building, where Tomisin, who was armed with a pair of scissors, used it to cut her dress and stripped her. “After she had been stripped, Osas held her down, while his wife inserted an empty bottle of an alcoholic beverage in her private parts. “They also took her naked pictures and threatened to upload them on the Internet if she dare to report to anyone.” The PPRO added that the couple were arrested after the Divisional Police Officer, Agbara, SP Dahiru Saleh, dispatched detectives to go after them. “On interrogation, the couple admitted to committing the crime, but regretted their actions” the PPRO stated. He said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Kenneth Ebrimson, had directed that the suspects be charged as soon as investigation was concluded. Oyeyemi added that the CP vowed that every case of violence against women in the state would be investigated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 