Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Government has begun an anti-rabies campaign for the yearly vaccination of dogs in the 16 Local Government Areas of the state to protect the health of residents. The Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, who said rabies, a deadly virus, which could be contracted from bites of animals, including dogs and cats killed over 150 persons daily in Africa and Asia, urged Ekiti residents to bring their dogs for vaccination to protect the people in the communities. Fayemi, represented by the Commissioner for Agriculture, Chief Folorunso Olabode, spoke in Ado Ekiti during the inauguration of the 2020 free anti-rabies vaccination campaign in Ekiti State organised by the state Ministry of Agriculture in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture’s Regional Disease Surveillance System Enhancement. He said, “The campaign will address the need for all dogs in the state to be vaccinated, elimination of stray dogs in our communities and total eradication of rabies from our society. Our government is always prioritising the protection of the people.” The governor said children were particularly vulnerable due to their unsuspecting nature and inability to recognise the cardinal signs of the disease in dogs and cats, which were carriers of the virus. He said Ekiti State was free from the virus, adding, “In Ekiti State, cases of deaths in humans due to rabies have been reported at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido Ekiti, while our veterinary hospitals also have documented cases of clinical cases in dogs with several reports of a dog bite to members of the public at a short interval of days.” REDISSE Coordinator in Ekiti State, Dr Ibukun Akinola, said, “Rabies is a deadly disease but often overlooked. It kills about 99.9 per cent of its victims. Despite our various efforts to eradicate rabies in Ekiti State, we have found out that it has persisted as a scourge. “That is why the animal health component of the REDISSE project, in partnership with the Federal Department of Veterinary and Health Control Services is embarking on rabies enlightenment and mass dog vaccination across the state,” Akinola said. In her goodwill message, Ekiti State Commissioner for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade; and her Environment counterpart, Gbenga Agbeyo; said vaccinating dogs was a great contribution towards human health protection. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 