Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan has given June 2020 as the deadline to conclude investigations as well as prosecute murderers of the late Chima Ikwunado, a Rivers based mechanic who worked at the Ikokwu mechanic village. The late Ikwunado was believed to have been tortured to death by personnel of the Eagle Crack team at the Mile One Police Division on December 23, 2019, four days after he was arrested alongside four of his mechanic friends. The death of the mechanic sparked several protests in the state as there are suspicions that the Police are protecting the perpetrators of the crime. But on Friday, June 19, during a meeting of the state Police hierarchy in the state and the Rivers Civil Society Organisations, at the State Command Headquarters in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, the Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, vowed to conclude investigations into the matter and ensure that justice was served before the end of June 2020. The CP’s declaration followed the Civil Society organisations’ threat to resume protests on Monday, June, 22 against the Police, demanding justice for the mechanics who were unjustly treated, insisting that the matter must not be swept under the carpet. Read also: Bandits attack Katsina communities again, kill seven Mukan said, “Rivers people should by now be well conversant with the trend of our activities here, we are always transparent most especially when it comes to criminal issues like murder, we don’t sweep it under the carpet. “They (Rivers people) should know that justice will be done in this case and the perpetrators must be brought to justice. Nobody will aid or abate criminality like capital issues of murder. So we are on course and everybody will be satisfied with the police action that is coming up at the end of this month.” On his part, the Chairman Rivers Civil Society Organisations, Enefaa Georgewill, said although his organisation had planned to resume protest from Monday at the front of the Police Command Headquarters, but from the assurance of the state Police Commissioner, Mukan, they would get back to their meetings, deliberate and take a decision on the matter. PUNCH had reported that after the death of one of the suspects, Chima Ikwunado, in January 2020, the other four suspects were charged to court and remanded, but were later declared innocent and released from prison custody in February 2020. Following a public outcry for justice for the slain mechanic and the detention of his friends, the Police claimed and that an autopsy conducted on the deceased, showed he died of high sugar level. 