Peter Dada,  Akure The rift between the Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu and his deputy, Mr. Agboola Ajayi, continued to linger as the latter accused the governor of plotting to use the state House of Assembly to illegally remove him. Ajayi, who dumped the All Progressives Congress on Sunday and joined the Peoples Democratic Party on Monday, alleged that the governor was planning to induce members of the assembly to remove him from office. In a statement on Tuesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Tope Okeowo, the embattled deputy governor said he had not violated  any part of the constitution by his defection. He said, “We wish to state that the deputy governor is a tested politician of note, who is not unprepared for this type of kangaroo and infamous move from the desperate and drowning governor and his group. “By joining the PDP, Agboola Ajayi has not committed any impeachable offence. He has only exercised his constitutional right of freedom of association according to section 40 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended).” However, the state Commissioner for Information, Mr Donald Ojogo, denied the allegation, describing it as frivolous. “For anyone to think that lawmakers have been financially induced is a gross display of emptiness. “It becomes more laughable when such comes from someone who had boasted about having the majority members in the assembly,” Ojogo stated. Akeredolu sacks Ajayi’s aides Meanwhile, the Ondo State Governor, Akeredolu, on Tuesday sacked six aides attached to the office of his deputy, Mr Agboola Ajayi. The aides relieved of their appointments are the Special Assistant on Special Duties, Mr Olomu Bayo; the Special Assistant, (Photography), Mr  Olawale Mukaila; the  Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Mr Babatope Okeowo; the Personal Assistant, (Deputy Governor), Mr Samuel Ogunmusi;  the Special Assistant to the wife of the Deputy Governor, Mr Omotunmise Tokunbo, and the photographer to the wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs Erifeyiwa Akinnugba. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Segun Ajiboye, the affected aides were directed to submit all government’s property in their possession to the Chief of Staff to the governor. Deputy gov employs sacked aides But a few hours after they were sacked,  the deputy governor absorbed the aides sacked by Akeredolu. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor, Mr Tope Okeowo, the deputy governor said  the aides should resume with immediate effect. The statement read in part, “In the meantime, all the sacked aides of the deputy governor have been reappointed as his personal aides and are hereby advised to return all government properties in their possession to the appropriate quarters within 24 hours. “We also wish to inform the people of Ondo State and the general public that the deputy governor would speak about all contending issues at the appropriate time.” Earlier, the men of the Ondo State Police Command stormed the state House of Assembly complex. It was gathered that the policemen were deployed in the Assembly complex following the information that the lawmakers might have a rowdy session. The police patrol vehicles were seeing parked inside and outside the Assembly complex. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com