Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The Deputy National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Victor Giadom, has written a letter to the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, introducing himself as the new chairman of the APC. In the letter dated June 18, 2020 with reference number APC/NHDQ/INEC/19/020/014, Giadom told INEC to henceforth serve all letters and other correspondences on him. The letter read in part, “I want to respectfully through this medium bring it to your attention that I have been appointed as the acting National Chairman of the APC. A copy of the order of the FCT High Court, Abuja affirming my authority as the acting national chairman of the APC is herewith attached. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: Why I am contesting on PDP’s platform – Obaseki “Please note that the earlier of the FCT High Court suspending Comrade Adams Oshiomhole from office on March 4, 2020 as affirmed by the Court of Appeal, Abuja on June 16, 2020. Mr. Oshiomhole’s appeals were dismissed on that date. Copies of the orders of the court in the tow cases are herewith attached for your perusal. “As the acting national chairman of the party, all processes, documents, and communications including those concerning the conduct of elections meant for the APC are to be served on me.” An FCT High Court had on Thursday extended an order earlier permitting Giadom to act as the national chairman of the APC to 14 days. Giadom announced he had taken over the leadership of the party after Oshiomhole’s suspension, dismissing the party’s announcement of the former Oyo governor, Abiola Ajimobi, as acting chairman. He had also boasted that he would lead the party to conduct a fresh Edo primary screening. An earlier screening conducted under Oshiomhole disqualified Godwin Obaseki, the incumbent governor who has since defected to the Peoples Democratic Party. However, a Rivers State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Friday, restrained Giadom, from acting as the national chairman of the party.