Olushola Odeyinde Singer, Peter Okoye, has narrated how he and his wife, daughter as well as two domestic staff tested positive for COVID-19 and recovered after a few weeks. Making the revelation in a video posted via his Twitter handle on Saturday, Okoye said,  ”For the past three weeks, I have been ill and most people didn’t even know what was wrong with me. I kept it to myself. It has been three weeks of hell for me and my family. “I had COVID19 for about three weeks and it happened to me. “I was sick and I tested positive. “It’s been hell for this family in this house. Not just me. Even two of my domestic staff. “After a week, my daughter caught the virus as well. It was sad that when she caught it, the doctor insisted that she has to be self-isolated in her own room but my wife did something very courageous. She said no. [READ ALSO] Flight resumption: Passengers, crew may undergo COVID-19 tests “I was sick and I was being self-isolated in my guest room. I couldn’t even see my sick daughter and I was feeling so bad. I felt so bad because I felt that I am the one who actually brought the virus to the house. It was so bad that I had to be calling her on video, checking on her. “The next day, my wife did something very courageous. She picked our daughter from her room, held her and took her to the master bedroom and she called me and she started crying. I asked her what happened and she said I cannot live this girl alone. I would rather be infected and be with her. “Five or six days later, my daughter was pronounced negative. When she was pronounced negative, we knew it wasn’t going to end there. The next day, Lola became positive. It has been hell but we had a bad experience. “The reason I came out to say this is to encourage a lot of people concerning this whole social distancing, getting used to sanitising your hands, disinfecting your environment, wearing your face mask, and all that. “I just want to tell everybody that this COVID19 is real. Don’t take it for granted. “I am happy to announce that my wife, myself, our daughter, and two of our domestic staff all of us are now negative.” See tweet: 