Olaleye Aluko, Matthew Ochei and Chidiebube Okeoma A daughter of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State and Oyo State Commissioner for Youth Development and Sports, Seun Fakorede, have tested positive for COVID-19. Okowa’s Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, in a statement on Friday said consequently, the governor and other members of his family had commenced self-isolation for 14 days. He said, “One of the children of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has tested positive for the coronavirus and, as such, the governor and his family members have gone on self-isolation for 14 days. “It is, again, pertinent to stress that COVID-19 is real and citizens are advised to be disciplined and comply with the protocols of wearing face masks and maintaining physical distancing while in public places. “Others include basic hygiene of hand-washing with soap under running water and use of alcohol-based sanitisers as the NCDC (Nigeria Centre for Disease Control) regulation demands.” Similarly, Oyo State commissioner, Fakorede, 28, stated in a LinkedIn post on Friday that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and had proceeded on isolation, although he was asymptomatic. He said, “I tested positive for COVlD-19 and I want you to know that there’s no cause for any panic as I’m very well, safe and sound without any symptoms or breakdown. Before the test result came in, I had no inkling that l was going to test positive. This was because, despite the demands of the office I occupy, l have been careful since COVlD-19 crept into our world I took the test just like others and didn’t nurse any fear. “I was asymptomatic, I still am, and I remain fearless. l have immediately followed and adhered strictly to the directives of the Incident Management for the Oyo State Response to the coronavirus pandemic.” Oyo State currently has about 1,200 confirmed cases of COVID-19, being the fourth-highest endemic state in the country. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Committee on COVID-19 in Imo State, Prof Maurice Iwu, has said more health workers have tested positive for COVID-19. According to Iwu, who is a former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, the committee has constituted teams to monitor compliance with the COVID-19 protocols in the state. Speaking during a weekly briefing on the COVID-19 response in Owerri, Iwu attributed the increase in the number of cases in the state to the total neglect of safety guidelines by the people, warning that security agents had been briefed to ensure compliance. He urged residents to maintain physical distancing and use face masks at all times. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 