You will turn 80 in July, how do you feel? I’m happy that I’m still strong. If you are a cricketer, one of the things that you learn early is discipline. It is that discipline of the mind and body that will help you maintain a standard procedure and keep you in top shape. I have always been doing things in moderation. Right from when I was in primary school, and during my time as a pupil of Government College, Ibadan, where I learnt the game of cricket, that aspect of living a disciplined life has always been my style. How I feel at 80? I will say this, I live within my means.   I’m a product and beneficiary of the British model of education and other aspects of their instructions in being a gentleman. Can you share your GCI cricket experience with us? At GCI, we were taught how to live life with a direction of purpose. So, with that kind of training from the colonial masters, one would learn to train the body and soul by disciplining one’s self. This has been the principle through which I live my life and I’m glad I had that opportunity to enjoy the instructions which our teachers at GCI gave us. Don’t forget, these are people who also had the opportunity to attend the English Public School system in England. As a colony, Nigeria benefitted from this system and I’m bold to say this, few schools had such advantages.  Why did you opt for cricket, ahead of more popular sports like football and athletics? In school, we played every game, depending on the season. At GCI, we had football, hockey, athletics, basketball, tennis, swimming. In athletics and swimming, everybody in your house had to score some points. In fact, it was worse in swimming, where you had to do three lengths and it applied to everybody. If you couldn’t do the three lengths in swimming, they subtracted the total score from the points available. So, when I got to GCI, one of the games that I had that passion for happened to be cricket and I haven’t regretted it. I play squash too, but cricket is one game I just love to play always. What were the challenges that came with playing the game? Cricket as a sport is different from every other game, it’s a way of life, a character-building game. It’s also an embodiment of on-and-off-field discipline. Don’t forget, this is a game which the upper class of the British society brought to us and those of us who played it were expected to be sound in mind and body. If you are a lazy person, cricket may be hard for you. How were you able to combine sports and education? You have to submit to the discipline and it becomes part of you. When it’s time for reading and studying, then you do that and when it’s time for sports, you go for sports.  We even cut grass too, it was normal for every child at that time.  Usually, when you got in there, it was not funny, but when you mastered it, it became a part of you, and that’s the substance of building any nation. Education then was an all-encompassing endeavour and we benefitted immensely from it. Was it easy for you breaking into the national team? Then, when I was in the university, we had this gentleman, I can’t remember his name now. He would drive from Lagos to Ibadan on Fridays to pick me and four others, specifically to play with the (national) team in Lagos. We played with colonial officers and others at the Tafawa Balewa Square those days. It was easy then if you had the passion. The chance would come and when I had mine, I took it and played to the best of my ability with the team. Can you recall some of your memorable moments as a cricketer? My memorable period in cricket was when in the 1980s, at the University of Lagos, our team went to Abidjan and proved to the world that we were good. What were the challenges of cricket during your time as a player and now? We learnt the essentials of cricket in those days. It was ingrained in us. We came from different families and had to succumb to discipline.  You had to bat, and as a cricket keeper, you had to be focused. I remember when a ball hit my teeth, it took some weeks for me to get myself. And if you failed at batting, be ready for your teammates’ anger. One of the greatest disservice to cricket, especially the schools, where the game featured prominently, is that the boarding house system that helped to build the sport and produce the players hardly exists again. How can the boarding school system ignite interest in cricket, if revived by government? I have said it before, it there’s a will, there will be a way.  Schools, especially secondary schools, are where young minds can be nurtured towards the development and growth of any society, not leaving the family system away. Cricket was one of the things that helped us along the way. One of the things, which government at all levels should do, is to return the boarding school system. Then, cricket can also be re-introduced for maximum gains of the society.   The boarding school system helped to shape the future of the British society and today, we still see the results. It is only fair that the children after us too enjoy the game and also benefit from the advantages associated with it. This will help develop them into becoming more responsible adults. Are you happy with the administration of the sport in Nigeria today? Well, I will say they are trying to do their best but more needs to be done. I told you that the British colonial government, which introduced the sport here, designed it on the framework of helping to develop individuals who should be disciplined. After the political instability of the late 1960s, things went comatose. I sincerely hope that things will change with cricket and other sporting activities. Cricket suffered from Nigeria’s political instability starting from the 60s. Imagine people using cricket pitches for owambe parties today, it’s totally wrong. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com