Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Osun State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, on Tuesday, said it had commenced investigation into the allegation that a housewife grabbed her husband’s genitals. The NSCDC spokesperson in the state, Daniel Adigun, said in a statement that one Omolara Seriki, a resident of Ikirun, headquarters of the Ifelodun Local Government Area of the state, reported her husband, Raheem, to the command that he was shirking his responsibilities. Adigun explained that when Raheem was invited and interrogated, it was discovered that he was a victim of physical assault by his wife, which led to him sustaining bodily injuries. The statement read in part, “The couple had been married for six years and had two children. Raheem complained that he had never enjoyed the marriage due to incessant fight between him and his wife. He said the situation made him to abandon their house in Ikirun and ran to Iragbiji. “Raheem said a few days after leaving home around 10pm, a lady brought food to him and could not leave immediately because it was raining and while waiting for the rain to subside, he heard a knock and he opened the door. “When he opened the door, the person knocking turned out to be his wife. Immediately his wife saw another woman in his room, she started making trouble. “Raheem said his wife grabbed his scrotum and attempted to pull it off. In the process, the husband said he fainted and only regained consciousness at the hospital, where his damaged scrotum was treated. “When confronted with her husband’s allegations, Omolara said she acted in self-defence, adding that Raheem attempted to strangulate her. The wife said she became suspicious that her husband was seeing another woman and she decided to trace him, only to discover the woman where Raheem was hiding.” Adigun added that though Omolara regretted her action and pleaded for leniency, the Commandant of the NSCDC in the state, Adeyinka Oguntuase, ordered an investigation into the case with a view to preventing a reoccurrence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com