Adelani Adepegba The crisis in the Rivers State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress seems to be far from being over as a faction of the party has kicked against the inaugural meeting of the Caretaker Executive Committee presided by the chairman, Igo Aguma. The virtual meeting which held on Saturday had 20 statutory members in attendance, but a chieftain of the party in the state, Isaac Ogbobula, has called on all APC members to disregard the parley. According to a statement by the Media Adviser to Aguma, Livingstone Wechie, fruitful deliberations were made at the meeting where Aguma made it clear that the primary focus of the caretaker committee was reconciliation and the conduct of congresses in line with the Supreme Court judgment. The statement said the committee mandated the chairman to consult widely and come up with a comprehensive draft working paper on the way forward for the party that would be deliberated upon at the next executive committee meeting. “The chairman is using this opportunity to call on all APC members in Rivers State to support the caretaker committee to reposition the party back to its winning ways,” the statement said. But Ogbobula in a counter-statement insisted that he remained the caretaker committee chairman of the party in the state, having filed an appeal along with a Motion on Notice for an injunction pending appeal/stay of execution on June 10, 2020, against the judgment of the Rivers State High Court, which confirmed Aguma as the chairman of the party in the state. He stated that he and members of the caretaker committee would in due course “call a proper meeting of the appropriate organ of the party in furtherance of the activities of the party.” Ogbobula stated, “All statutory members of the state executive committee of the party are hereby directed to ignore and completely disregard the meeting held by Igo Aguma.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 