Patrick Odey, Uyo The Akwa Ibom State Police Command has arrested one Ime Sunday for allegedly raping his 16-year-old daughter. Also arrested for similar offences were a pastor at a deliverance centre in Uyo, Inifon Inyang, and 10 others. This was disclosed at a media briefing at the command’s headquarters in Ikot Akpan-Abia on Wednesday by the Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal. Ime, who lives at Ekpene Obo in the Esit Eket Local Government Area of the state, was arrested on allegations that he repeatedly raped his daughter, leading to her escape from the house. Edgal stated, “On June 21, 2020, around 3.30pm, operatives of the Esit Eket Division arrested one Ime Sunday of Ekpene Obo, Esit Eket LGA. “Investigation revealed that the suspect, in November 2019, repeatedly raped his 16-year-old daughter, which forced her to escape from her father’s home to her friend’s abode in the Etinan LGA. “However, the father of the victim, who persuaded her to return home with a promise that she would no longer be sexually violated, continued in the same act after she returned home.” Inyang was similarly arrested following a tip-off. Edgal said, “Following a complaint on June 18, 2020, operatives of the SCIID, Uyo, arrested one Pastor Inimfon Eyo Inyang, 33, of Nung Atim Road, off Idoro Road, Uyo, for attempting to rape a 21-year-old woman. “Investigation revealed that the said pastor, who lives with eight other girls of between the ages of 13 and 16 in his deliverance centre, had unlawful carnal knowledge of one of the minors, who is 15-year-old, on several occasions.” The CP said Emmanuel Otu, Okon Asuquo, Solomon Okon and others were also arrested for rape and defilement. According to him, Emmanuel was arrested by the operatives of the Oron Division for breaking into a residential building and having carnal knowledge of a 28-year-old woman at gunpoint in Uko Nteghe, Mbo Local Government Area of the state. “The suspect invaded a residence at No. 4 Secretariat Road, Oron, around 1.30am on the said date and had unlawful carnal knowledge of a 28-year-old lady at gunpoint, and thereafter dispossessed the victim of her Tecno Spark 4 phone valued at N42,000, one itel phone valued at N9,000, one big towel valued at N5,000 and the sum of N32,000,” Edgal stated. The CP, who also paraded other suspected rapists, expressed dismay at the spike in rape cases, especially by caregivers and spiritual fathers Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 