Kayode Oyero Nigerians have poured out their emotions, sympathies, and raw grief over the death of popular radio host, Dan Foster. It was learnt that Foster, who was receiving treatment for an undisclosed illness, died on Wednesday at a medical facility in Lagos State. Many Nigerians on social media have since rolled out tributes in his honour, describing his death as painful and unbelievable. Gboyega Akosile, Chief Press Secretary to Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, tweeted, “Dan Foster was a good colleague in my days at Cool 96.9 fm, Lagos. He couldn’t pronounce my name well at the time so he changed it to G-Boyega! Reading about his sudden death now is shattering. Radio lovers all over the state will miss your voice. RIP.” Former Senator, who represented Bayelsa East Senatorial District in the Senate between 2015 and 2019, Ben Murray-Bruce, expressed sadness over the demise of the radio sensation. He wrote, “The death of Dan Foster saddens me. He was an excellent friend of mine and a veteran radio host bar none. May his soul rest in peace.” Also, Bashir Ahmad, Personal Assistant on New Media to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) tweeted, “A lot of people are saying one, two or more good things about Dan Foster. That shows how a good person he was. May God accept his soul, comfort his family and friends.” READ ALSO: Amnesty slams FG for arresting man who organised Katsina protests @kolatubosun celebrated the American who loved Nigeria, saying, “Yet to read a decent obituary of Dan Foster. A Black American who chose to settle in Lagos, he was a huge influence on Nigerian radio from the early 2000s. Will like to read his story. Who was he? What motivated him? He obviously touched a number of lives. May he rest.” @officialBovi expressed how the late Foster inspired him and made him love radio saying, “When I moved to Lagos in November 2003, Dan Foster was one of the reasons I didn’t run back home to Delta State. I tuned into Cool FM one morning and Dan made me love radio. Rip big dawg! I’m sad you left. But I’m happy your mark remains forever.” @abisinuolaa recalled Foster as an ebullient student, saying, “Marriage counselling class in 2006, this guy would come in late to class greet everyone before taking the back seat, he would laugh out when asked a question and proceed to give graphic details, the teacher will have to cut him short while we all burst out laughing. That was Dan Foster.”