Abiodun Doherty abiodundoherty@yahoo.com There are many would-be real estate investors who consider themselves unprepared for some of the demands of real estate investment. Some potential investors are scared about investing in real estate due to some bad experiences that they have heard happened to some people. Some other people find the initial money required to purchase, secure and develop a piece of real estate challenging. We have some that are intimidated by the challenges of owning and managing rental properties. While some of the above reasons may sound legitimate, they are not enough to prevent such individuals from investing in real estate. Real estate investment trust is one of the options open to such individuals and we will examine the concept. A real estate investment trust is simply a company that owns, operates and finances income-producing real estate. These companies usually invest in commercial properties, shopping malls, hotels and other real estate assets that can produce income for the investors. The investors in REITS are the shareholders. They invest in the company by buying the shares or units of the company with the expectation of receiving dividend as their profit. The REIT in this sense is a form of managed funds totally focused on real estate. There are three primary types of REITS.The first type of REITS is the equity REIT which invests primarily in actual assets and properties. While the second type is a mortgage REIT which invests primarily in property mortgages. The equity REITS earn income from the rents collected from their array of commercial properties, shopping malls and hotels. They own and manage these properties. The mortgage REITS do not own properties but invest in mortgages. They earn income in the form of the interest payable on the mortgages in their portfolio. There is a third type of REIT which is a hybrid of the previous two. There are several reasons why some investors love to invest in REITS and these might be good reasons for you to consider them as well. One of the primary reasons of investing in REITS is that they provide you with the opportunity to invest in real estate without exposing yourself to the risk of the individual investor. You do not need to buy or manage any property. You simply need to buy shares in any of the REITS and you will benefit from the investments they have made. Even for investors who already have their own real estate investment assets, it is a viable means of diversification. REITS also have some advantages which investing as an individual usually does not have. Although real estate is a relatively stable asset it is not liquid, thus not easily converted to cash. Through REITS an investor has the opportunity to remove his assets from physical assets to stocks which are more easily converted to cash. The shares are bought and traded on the Stock exchange. The REITS usually pay good dividend depending on their income and if the REITS is doing well the value of its shares will continue to appreciate. The investor can benefit from this capital growth any time he decides to sell those shares. However, it is always important for an investor to do his or her own due diligence. Not all REITS carry equal value. Before you invest in any REIT you might need to consider the quality of the management, their track record and the nature of the underlying assets. Your stockbroker should be helpful in this regard. A good REIT should have an experienced and professional management team. They should have a good track record of running the business efficiently and profitably thus enabling them to pay a good dividend. If you read their prospectus or annual report it will give you an insight into their business strategy and the nature of the underlying assets. It is important to note that REITs are not immune from all the major factors that affect the stock market such as the state of the economy and inflation. Like every other stocks it is susceptible to the market cycles which makes its values go up and down. A downturn in the property market due to the state of the economy or any other factor will also affect the value of your REIT portfolio. For some investors, REITS are simply a vehicle for diversification. Many investors prefer the brick and mortar approach and are comfortable with physical assets as a huge part of their portfolio. For those who are open to alternatives, REIT is definitely something to consider. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com