Dr. Sylvester Ikhisemojie When any person has the experience of passing urine that foams, it is sometimes an unsettling event. Most often, this happens a lot when someone passes urine in a large volume and quickly into a vessel or urinal. The speed with which the urine is passed, the turbulence such passage causes and the composition of the receiving vessel all play a role in determining how the urine appears and how much foam is in it. If the water closet bowl contains some soapy lotion for example, the urine will mix with some of that and appear foamy. However, such an occurrence will only be occasional as soap will not always be found in the bowl nor will urine always be voluminous and passed with a lot of force. The addition of a forceful passage occurs when a particular individual is pressed like it can be after a long road journey where it may not be expedient to stop at intervals to relieve oneself. When urine foams consistently, it is a sign that there is protein in it and it may then be time to see a doctor and complain about such an observation. To be sure, many of us would occasionally pass out some protein in the urine but it should never be a regular occurrence. That may be a problem after rigorous exercise, for example or following a major illness, but it should stop at some point. When protein is present all the time in the urine, it means the kidneys are not working properly. The kidneys are the filters of unwanted impurities from the blood. In the main, they should do all the necessary filtration but retain the proteins because proteins are important to the body for so many functions. If they fail to do this or are unable to do so, then something is seriously amiss. It is often indicated by the presence of albumin in the urine. Albumin is a component of the total amount of protein circulating in our blood. Sometimes, urine can appear foamy when the person passing it is dehydrated and has not had enough fluid to drink for that day. The body’s requirement for water is more in the tropics than in the temperate regions of the world for obvious reasons and the need to drink water is correspondingly more. Many people do not take enough fluids for a variety of reasons but it is important to make up on the deficit incurred once one is able to. That helps to avoid a state of dehydration and the passing of urine that can appear darker than normal and foamy as well. The various factors we have mentioned above can be responsible for foaming urine but as emphasised also, once it gets to be more noticeable over time, it only means that the kidneys are practically leaking protein. They are failing in their duty of adequately filtering the urine such that there is the tendency at that point towards kidney failure. In people with pre-existing conditions of hypertension and or diabetes, this often represents a problem that could end up with regular dialysis and even kidney transplantation. There are some other reasons why your urine could produce foam other than dehydration and speed of passage. An inflammatory condition in the kidneys such as might be found in a condition known as glomerulonephritis can often cause this malady. The long name means there is a swelling response of the small functional units of the kidneys such that their cells allow the passage of large particles through them including proteins. These proteins then escape into the urine and such urine demonstrates their presence by foaming. Intensive exercise in perfectly healthy people can also lead to this possibility and that is one of the reasons why top athletes and soldiers are fed reinforced meals essentially made of high percentage proteins. In the military stores of the world’s largest armies, these are stored in advance as “meals ready to eat” or MRE. It is largely to replenish the protein stores that might be lost during intense combat. Sometimes, a stone anywhere along the urinary tract can also cause the passage of protein in the urine that can cause it to foam. Some of this is because it may impede the flow of urine such that it can get attacked by bacteria thereby leading to protein loss. Sometimes, the physical injury caused by the stone as it scrapes the walls of the pathway can also liberate some protein into the urine either directly or through associated bleeding. In the same way, people on treatment with aspirin can also have this problem as can yet others who have been exposed to intense cold. Low blood pressure, which is associated with certain conditions, like severe diarrhoea and vomiting, can also cause this. This can be seen also in people who have endured severe blood loss from injuries or operations. Lastly, even people undergoing emotional turmoil and stress have been observed to pass protein in their urine in a situation known as proteinuria. When you pass foaming urine, it is rational to consider the possibility of the common causes first. Urinating with a fast stream is a top contender. Urinating into a toilet bowl that has some soap in it is another and so is inadequate intake of water and other fluids. However, if foamy urine is associated with other symptoms or it is recurrent, it will be wise to see a doctor and get examined properly. Symptoms such as nausea, a shortness of breath and unexplained tiredness often help show the need to see a doctor. The same holds true for general swelling of the body, an itchy skin and the frequent passage of urine. There may also be vomiting. So that if somebody has any combination of these symptoms as well as a family history of diabetes, high blood pressure or kidney disease, such people should not delay before they see a doctor. In particular, diabetes and other causes of raised blood sugar often have more glucose particles circulating in their blood. Since glucose is a large compound just like protein, the kidneys may have trouble properly filtering them. When the kidneys cannot do the filtration properly, both the glucose and protein will escape into the urine causing it to foam. When the blood sugar level is not well regulated as in poorly controlled diabetes, there is a constant feeling of thirst, a dry mouth, and a frequent need to urinate. There may be in addition, unexplained hunger, unexplained weakness, a dry mouth and blurring of the vision. As a result, the presence of protein in the urine can be diagnosed by testing a urine sample for the amount of protein in it. If the levels are high, a 24-hour urine sample is requested which, which is all the urine produced in an entire day and sent to a laboratory for analysis which will attempt to compare the amount of albumin in the blood to the level of creatinine, another protein. If the ratio between the former and the latter is above average, it would mean that there is kidney disease. Very often, foaming urine can be reversed by simply drinking more water and the appearance should then cease within a few days. If that does not happen, and there are some of the symptoms we mentioned earlier in association with it, then you must see a doctor. Other than increased water intake, changes can be made to the diet as well as regular exercise and weight control. If you do smoke and or take large amounts of alcohol, it is important to stop those habits. Finally, if there is associated high blood pressure or diabetes, medications must be prescribed to control those conditions. Often it is a combination of all the measures described above that will do the magic and it is important to know that at certain levels and with adequate discipline, some of the conditions that will cause the urine to foam are reversible. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com