John Alechenu, Abuja The Director-General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman, has urged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to take steps to halt the chaos in the All Progressives Congress in order to protect his legacy. This was contained in a memo written by the PGF DG, which was made available to newsmen in Abuja, on Thursday. Lukman said, “What makes the situation more frustrating is the reticence of President Buhari in the face of what obviously could damage the legacy he will bequeath to the nation. “While we must celebrate the fact that his leadership style is required to ensure that the party is managed independently and therefore made possible for the exercise of the supremacy of the party based on decisions of organs, ‘old ambition-Virus 2023’ may have weakened the capacity of the party to benefit from the commendable leadership approach of President Buhari.” READ ALSO: APC crisis: Put God above your interest, Oshiomhole begs Giadom According to him, all well-meaning members of the APC should be ashamed of what is currently happening within the governing party, which he said was “gradually slipping into disintegration with a defective leadership”. The PGF is the umbrella body of all governors elected on the platform of the APC. There are currently 20 governors who are members of the forum. Lukeman stressed that it was time for all true leaders of the party “to stand up and be counted arguing that the party which was in total control of the executive and the legislature with tested politicians and leaders in various spheres of human endeavour, have no excuse not to do everything legally possible to save the administration from the distraction which the leadership squabbles within the APC has become”. He wondered why a political party which parades leaders such as the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu and so many others find it difficult to reorganise the party to fulfil the dreams of its founding fathers. He recommended that a National Executive Committee meeting be convened to resolve all outstanding issues thrashed out.