Samson Folarin The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership has called on anti-graft agencies in the country to investigate allegations of fraud in the Lagos State Waste Management Authority. The group particularly urged the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission to intervene in the matter and bring culprits to book. The PUNCH had reported that fraud running into hundreds of millions of naira was being perpetrated in LAWMA by contractors, who used sweepers to shortchange government, as well as failed to pay them. CACOL, in a statement on Friday signed by the Coordinator, Administration and Programmes, Mr Tola Oresanwo, for the Executive Chairman, Mr Debo Adeniran, said findings by the anti-graft group also confirmed The PUNCH’s report. He said, “From our direct interactions with some of the sweepers in the state, The PUNCH story is not far from the truth. It is also noteworthy that the Commissioner for the Environment also corroborated The PUNCH’s story by saying, ‘there was no reason why the agency should owe sweepers because their funding comes directly from the Ministry of Finance.’ “Considering the strategic and critical role of the agency in the maintenance of cleanliness in the state, we are seriously concerned about the enormity of corruption going on in the waste management authority in the state. “We therefore call on the anti-corruption agencies to quickly intervene in the matter now with a view to sanitising it and bringing those responsible for the alleged fraud to book so as to serve as a deterrent to others, while maintaining a cleaner environment for all Lagosians.” CACOL also called for the “immediate handover of the former Managing Director of the agency, Dr Muyiwa Gbadegeshin, to the ICPC or EFCC to answer to the allegations.” It asked the state Commissioner for Environment and Water Services, Mr Tunji Bello, to embark on an emergency drainage de-silting to save residents from imminent floods as heavier rains were still expected before the last quarter of the year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com