The agrarian community of Kiribo in the Ese Odo Local Government Area of Ondo State was, on Sunday, June 21, 2020, agog following the arrival of one of the prominent sons and deputy governor of the state, Mr Agboola Ajayi, who went to his Apoi Ward 2 secretariat of the All Progressives Congress to announce his defection from the ruling party to the Peoples Democratic Party. The residents rolled out the drums to welcome one of their own, a development that has further enlivened the political arena in the state. The primaries of political parties to elect their flagbearers for the October governorship election are very much around the corner. The gladiators in the two major political parties, the APC and the PDP, who are busy preparing for the election, have started jostling to secure the ticket of their respective parties. On Monday, June 22, 2020, Ajayi, who had already signified his intention to contest against his boss, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, if given the ticket of the PDP, went to the party’s secretariat in Alagbaka,  Akure, with a mammoth crowd of his supporters to meet the national and state leaders of the party. The recent political move of the deputy governor is gradually heating up the polity as the configuration of the two political parties has changed ahead of the governorship election in October. It is believed that the current political development is not unconnected with the lingering crisis between Akeredolu and his deputy. It had been earlier reported that Ajayi and the governor, had been at loggerheads with each other politically, which led Akeredolu to allegedly sideline his deputy in the scheme of things. The cold war started some months ago when Ajayi was alleged to be nursing the ambition of being the governor of the state at the expense of the second term of his boss. He was said to be planning to contest against the governor, using another political platform. Ajayi then denied the allegation and claimed to be 100 per cent loyal to his boss. But the crisis resurfaced and degenerated to the point that the deputy governor’s office was reportedly stopped being funded and he ceased attending many state functions. Efforts of the party leaders in and outside the state to reconcile the duo were futile. The disagreement eventually informed his decision to leave the APC for the PDP to contest against Akeredolu. As Ajayi bade farewell to the ruling party, it was learnt that many intrigues were going on in both parties to ensure that the deputy governor’s move affected them positively. Prior to the defection, Ajayi was said to have made wide consultations with the leaders of the PDP, both at the state and national levels, while many options were said to have been placed before him to ease his entry into the party. It must be noted that Ajayi was a foundation member of the PDP in Ondo State and was the Chairman of the Ese Odo Local Government Area of the state before he was elected a member of the House of Representatives between 2007 and 2011 under the platform of the party. He, however, left the party in 2015 to join the APC with thousands of his supporters across the state. He was later picked as Akeredolu’s running mate for the 2016 governorship election and became the deputy governor after the APC won the election. A source in the PDP said the leadership of the party at the state and national levels was all at sea on his return to the opposition party. The problem on their hands is how the return of the deputy governor will not disrupt the previous arrangement of the party ahead the forthcoming primary and the main election. It was gathered that there had been several meetings between the leadership of the party with the aspirants on how Ajayi’s return would be a blessing to the party. On the other hand, some of the aspirants under the PDP though embraced the coming back of Ajayi, but were alleged not to be satisfied with the development on the grounds that he might hijack the party structure from them. Aspirants like Eyitayo Jegede, Banji Okunomo, Sola Ebiseni and Eddy Olafeso have all welcomed the return of the former federal lawmaker as it is expected to boost the population of the party and consequently enhance its chances of winning the governorship. They, however, said they would not step down for Ajayi. A source said, “Three options were placed before him (Ajayi). First, to leave the APC and join the PDP to contest the party without resigning from the Akeredolu government. Second is for him to leave both Akeredolu’s government and the APC and concentrate on contesting under the PDP. Third is to remain in the APC government and defect to the PDP to support whoever is picked as the candidate of the party.” Ajayi reportedly opted to be a member of the opposition party working in the APC government. He declared after registering as a new member of the PDP in Kiribo that he would not resign his position as deputy governor. Another pertinent issue that was said to be giving the PDP a serious headache is the issue of who becomes Ajayi’s running mate if he eventually clinches the party’s ticket. The party was said to be looking for a member with a big clout and who is capable of winning the election in his zone. Earlier, it was rumoured that one of the aspirants, Jegede, from the Ondo Central Senatorial District might be picked, but he swiftly killed the idea, saying he could not play second fiddle to anybody in the party. “The propaganda of me being a running mate to Agboola Ajayi is nothing but another lie from the pit of hell in order to test the waters and how their fate will be determined by the good people of Ondo State in the 2020 governorship election. What we are concentrating on now is the support of the delegates. We are ready for the contest; we are ready for the primary and we are ready for the election by the grace of God,” Jegede had stated. The National Chairman of the PDP, Mr Uche Secondus, while welcoming Ajayi and his supporters back to the party, expressed optimism that the coming of the deputy governor would add value to the PDP. He appealed to all the aspirants to work together in order to achieve one purpose of ousting the APC, which he noted had destroyed the country in the last five years. He, however, gave an assurance that the primary would be free and fair, adding that the imposition of aspirants would not happen. “Everybody has equal rights in the party. We are not going to impose any aspirant on others, because our target is to take over the state,” Secondus stated. Similarly, Ajayi’s exit was perceived to be a significant development in the camp of the ruling party as there was a strong indication that he was leaving the APC with some party bigwigs, including some members of the state House of Assembly, the state executive council of the APC and some aides of Akeredolu. Some members of the Unity Forum are also not left out of the purported mass movement. Having noted this plot, the party was said to been making grand plans to replace those exiting. This is seen as important to the ruling party. In order not to create a vacuum, it was gathered that the governor had pencilled in some names from the southern senatorial district of the state, where Ajayi comes from, one of who will be picked as his running mate in the October governorship election. It was reliably gathered that some chieftains of the party had started scheming and lobbying to be picked by the governor. The Chairman, APC in Ondo State, Ade Adetimehin, defiantly said with or without Ajayi, the party remained the one to beat in the forthcoming election. He said, “We wish Ajayi well in his political journey, but I want to tell you that the APC is winning the next election. The performance of Governor Akeredolu has silenced the opposition; you are in this state and you too can testify to our various achievements in the last three and half years. Apart from the massive road rehabilitation and construction, you can see what is happening in the Ore Industrial Hub, the seaport project is about to start, bitumen exploitation will commence any moment from now. “You can see the transformation of our primary schools across the state. The Akeredolu administration has touched all sectors. All these make people to love us. The APC is the party to beat.” However, the battle may take another dimension as the APC is insisting that Ajayi must leave the government since he has left the party that gave him the opportunity to be the deputy governor. In a statement issued by the APC Publicity Secretary in the state, Mr Alex Kalejaiye, the party said, “It is imperative to remind him (Ajayi) that he ran on an APC ticket given to Akeredolu and both were sponsored by the party. Now that he chooses to defect, the party advises him to tow the path of wisdom and resign honourably as the deputy governor of Ondo State.” A public affairs analyst, Dr Gbenga Abimbola, noted that the next political move of the deputy governor would certainly have implications on the two big political parties in the state. He stated, “Ajayi’s movement from the APC will have implications for the party and the PDP. The implication for the APC is that it has lost one of its prominent members, because whether we like it or not, the state number two man is a prominent member of the party, who is leaving at this critical period of the election year. It is going to weaken the party, no matter how small, because the man has his own catchment area and has his own supporters and loyalists across the state, and all these people may move with him. “Also, his going to the PDP will definitely be a plus, because a big fish has joined the opposition from the ruling party. However, this is an election year, it is believed that his coming to the PDP is to contest and not for free. If he is going to contest, the other aspirants there may be looking at it that he wants to unsettle them to clinch the ticket of the party.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com