Chukwudi Akasike and Sampson Itode The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State on Monday took a fresh dimension as the party announced the suspension of its acting Chairman, Igo Aguma. It was gathered that 28 out of the 38 statutory members of the State Executive Committee of the APC met and suspended Aguma before declaring Sekonte Davies as the acting chairman of the party. But Aguma insisted that he remained the acting chairman of the party, describing those instigating his removal as merchants of crisis. Addressing newsmen on behalf of SEC members in Port Harcourt, a former lawmaker, Senator Andrew Uchendu, after declaring Davies the new state chairman of the party, said the suspension of Victor Giadom as Deputy National Secretary of the party was a nullity. Uchendu said, “Without authorisation from the statutory members of the State Executive Committee  Igochukwu Aguma has been operating from his private residence, deliberately refusing to operate from the state secretariat of the party and this is against the advice of majority of the statutory members of the State Executive Committee. “Igochukwu Aguma is hereby suspended as the chairman of the Caretaker Committee of the APC, Rivers State chapter. This is pursuant to the powers of discipline vested in the State Executive Committee under Article 21 of the Constitution of the All Progressives Congress 2014 (as amended). “Hon. Sokonte Davies has been selected by majority vote at this meeting to lead the Caretaker Committee of the APC, Rivers State chapter pending the conduct of fresh congresses to fill the vacant positions in the organs of the party at all levels.” But Aguma, said, “I am still the chairman of the APC in Rivers State authenticated by the National Working Committee of the party, who has accepted in full the judgement of the court and there are procedures which you can follow to undo something. “I also noticed that one of the biggest problems in the party is lack of discipline and that lack of discipline is manifesting in what a faction of the party is doing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 