Alexander Okere A virologist and former president of the Nigerian Academy of Science, Prof Oyewale Tomori, has blamed the widespread community transmission of COVID-19 in Nigeria on the failure of the government to secure the livelihoods of the citizens. Tomori stated the Federal Government lacked the moral right to insist on a lockdown because it could not guarantee a means of securing the basic necessities of life for the citizens during the lockdown. The former Vice-Chancellor of Redeemer’s University, Osun State, who stated these in an interview with Sunday PUNCH, also said the citizens were to blame for disregarding the guidelines aimed at protecting them from contracting the virus. The total number of confirmed cases and deaths from COVID-19 were 23,298 and 554 respectively as of press time. The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, had during a briefing by the task force in Abuja on Thursday said the rising number of confirmed cases and fatalities from the pandemic confirmed the extent of community transmission of the virus, especially in 21 local government areas which accounted for 60 per cent of infections nationwide. Mustapha also said Nigeria was at a stage where another lockdown would have been introduced if it were within his power following what he described as “the level of recklessness on the part of people who should know better”. But Tomori said the government was listening and succumbing to the “legitimate desires and illegitimate wishes” of the people on easing the lockdown, instead of guiding the people in the right direction. The virologist noted that the flouting of the interstate lockdown was an attribute of an undisciplined society. He, however, advised the government to gradually ease the lockdown and set up rules and regulations that should be strictly monitored and evaluated. He stated, “The government lost the moral right to insist on the lockdown because it has failed to preserve the livelihoods of the citizens who also have failed to protect their own lives. The failure of the government to preserve livelihood and the citizens’ failure to protect their lives have combined to ensure the escalation in the number of COVID-19 cases and the establishment of widespread community transmission of the disease in the country. “Again, we must stress that COVID-19 will not kill the government, but it is the individual that gets infected with COVID-19 and possibly die from the disease. Unless we each play our role, lockdown or no lockdown, COVID-19 will continue to spread in Nigeria, until we attain such a level of herd immunity that will protect the few that will escape the infection, and that may be at a high cost in life. “What should we do now? We cannot stay on lockdown forever, so we must ease the lockdown gradually, set up rules and regulations on the dos and don’ts, strictly monitor and evaluate compliance and be ready to make necessary adjustments rapidly and as required.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com