Nike Popoola The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate has said it is ready to pay the first batch of the verified ex-workers of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company, in line with the takeover approval of pension-related matters of some agencies, privatised/liquidated by the Bureau of Public Enterprises in 2017. The Executive Secretary, PTAD, Dr Chioma Ejikeme, said in a statement that it carried out a physical verification and biometric capture exercise for eligible ex-workers and next of kin of deceased ex-workers of NAHCO during the directorate’s nationwide verification exercise conducted for parastatals’ pensioners in 2019. She said the collated data were subjected to rigorous due processes, culminating in the computation and auditing of the entitlements of the verified ex-workers and next of kin. She said the directorate was prepared to make payment to the first batch of ex-workers and next of kin that were eligible to receive this one-off (final) payment. Ejikeme said for the pensioners and next of kin to access the benefit, it was pertinent to highlight certain salient points that defined their eligibility. Highlighting the requirements, she said, “The payment to be made is in respect of any outstanding terminal benefit that may exist as at the effective date of NAHCO privatisation when the Federal Government of Nigeria’s entire equity holding in the company was disposed of. “Payment would be made in batches subject to the availability of funds. The effective date of the privatisation of NAHCO was August 31, 2005 “All ex-workers who exited the company prior to privatisation of NAHCO had been fully settled by the company and do not have any outstanding terminal benefits.” According to Ejikeme, the FGN is not responsible for the period served beyond the effective date of NAHCO privatisation and thus all ex-workers and next of kin in this category are not under the purview of PTAD. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  