Johnny Edward Members of the Club Owners Association have voted against the restart of the Nigerian Professional Football League season, insisting that no club be relegated or promoted, The PUNCH reports. Football in Nigeria has been suspended due to the coronavirus outbreak, which brought the sporting world to a complete standstill until a few weeks ago, when European football gradually returned. The PUNCH learnt that the 20 NPFL club chairmen were involved in a virtual voting process on the best options to end the NPFL 2019/20 season, with 17 of them voting to end the season, with the top three clubs representing Nigeria at CAF competitions via the Points Per Game table. The clubs also voted that no club should be relegated to the lower division or promoted from the second tier league to the topflight. The clubs who voted are Kwara United, Kano Pillars, Katsina United, Jigawa Golden Stars, Adamawa United, Wikki Tourist, MFM, Sunshine Stars, Enyimba, Warri Wolves, Abia Warriors, Nasarawa United, IfeanyiUbah, Dakkada, Heartland, Rivers United and Plateau United. Akwa United and Lobi Stars abstained from voting, while Enugu Rangers voted that the NPFL season should be completed via a Super Six playoffs, with the top three clubs representing the country in next season’s CAF competitions. Chairman of the Club Owners Association Isaac Danladi said, “We had our visual meetings. We had four options and the viable options were reduced to two, which is stopping the league and calculate the points per game, which is the standard practice because not all teams have played the equal number of games. This will allow the first three teams represent the country on the continent and there will be no promotion and relegation. “Option B was also to calculate via PPG and go for playoffs with the first six teams in a neutral venue and the first three teams will represent the country on the continent and there will be no promotion and relegation. It’s a done deal we have taken a decision. “All these options we were put into a vote, 17 clubs out of 20 opted for Option A, which was to cancel the league, calculate the points per game and let the first three teams represent the country on the continent, and there will be no promotion and relegation. “As it is, it’s a done deal and we are communicating our decision and recommendation to the League Management Company for onward transmission to the Nigerian Football Federation for their final decision.” Danladi also added that the association remained united despite three clubs not voting for Option A. “We are one big family but the majority carries the vote,” Danladi continued. “When Lobi Stars were adjudged winners of the NPFL (2018), it was not a unanimous decision, so what is good for the goose is good for the gander. When Lobi were crowned, there were options given to us by the LMC but what we did was to come up with ours and they had no choice but to comply. “A precedent has already been set, so let’s remove politics and sentiments from it. What has been lost now will be gained later.” If the decision is upheld by the LMC, leaders Plateau United and Enyimba will represent Nigeria in next season’s CAF Champions League, while Rivers United will compete in the CAF Confederation Cup. Meanwhile, Lobi Stars have rejected the voting process, insisting that the LMC and the club owners conspired against the Makurdi based outfit. Lobi Stars were third before the NPFL season was suspended but now dropped to fourth due to the PPG format applied. “Lobi Stars have been propagating and will continue to propagate the illegality of the PPG aimed at tinkering with the league table to favour Enyimba, that were partly responsible for throwing away the CAF Champions League second slot, which was later restored by the same Lobi Stars that the LMC conspired to cheat out of the continent,” a statement from Lobi Stars revealed. “It’s quite laughable that four of the games are first round games, thereby violating the league standard that, after the first round, there shall be a second round. It was expected that first-round matches were not to be carried over to second round if there was no bad motive.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 