‘Tana Aiyejina A Task Force set up by sports minister Sunday Dare will on Monday (today) commence work with the verification of occupants and identification of illegal structures inside the National Stadium, Lagos, a statement from the minister’s office said. The Task Force, headed by the sports ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Gabriel Aduda, was set up to restore sanity to the long-abandoned complex ahead of its planned concession, the statement added. “ The National Stadium, Lagos holds a lot of fond memories for our sportsmen and other people. We shall no longer allow our infrastructures to lie waste,” Dare stated while inaugurating the committee. “All our national stadiums shall be put to best use. Abuja and Kaduna are at advanced stages, Lagos has approval for concession. Before the process is complete, we need to restore sanity to the place. “So, the work of the Task Force is cut out. In the past, we had interlopers, now it is going to be fixed to serve our teeming youths. The Task Force will carry out its assignment according to the law of the land.” The committee’s task is to carry out an audit of approved tenants, verify details of tenancy agreement, come up with a list of approved and unapproved physical structures, as well as a list of squatters and their businesses. The committee members are also to investigate staff of the ministry, who allow the presence of the squatters, carry out a detailed analysis of revenue generated at the stadium and take inventory of all shops and businesses within the stadium premises. The committee, which has members drawn from the sports ministry, Lagos State and the private sector, has 21 days to complete its assignment. The minister had earlier given illegal occupants at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja a 25-day ultimatum to quit to enable rehabilitation work commence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com