Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The suspended National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, has asked the Deputy National Secretary of the party, Victor Giadom, who declared himself acting national chairman, to put God first above his personal interest. Oshiomhole also asked Giadom to put the overall interest of the party above his. The embattled chairman said this during Channels Television’s ‘Politics Today’  programme on Wednesday. He said the likes of Giadom were the ones who caused the current APC crisis in Rivers State which led to the state not participating in the general elections last year. The former governor of Edo State said, “I think my brother, Victor Giadom, wants to take our party to the route of Rivers State where they created so many problems that as we speak today, in Rivers we have crisis. READ ALSO: I built three rooms with Abiola’s money – Ajunwa “My plea with them is that they should put God first and put our national party’s interest second and put our democracy deep in their hearts and not try to use any externalities to destabilise our party the way it has been destabilised in Rivers State. “Everybody knows, including the overall leader of our party, President Muhammadu Buhari, that we ought to resolve issues amicably as provided for within the constitution of our party.” He said it was impossible for the deputy national secretary who ideally is not in the line of succession, to assume the duties of the national chairman. Oshiomhole said only the deputy national chairman or vice-chairman could act in his absence. Giadom had on Wednesday declared himself the acting national chairman of the party and reversed the party’s decision to disqualify Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, who has been having a fierce battle with Oshiomhole in the last one year. He said his declaration is in compliance with the judgement of Justice S.U. Bature in suit no FCT/HC/M/6447/2020 dated March 16, 2020, which ordered the suspension of Oshiomhole and ordered that “I, Chief Hon Victor Giadom should act as national chairman of our great party.”