Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo. National Association of Osun State Students, the umbrella body for tertiary institution students from the state has demanded death as punishment for any proven case of rape in the state. Addressing newsmen in Osogbo on Thursday, the president of the group, Ayowale Salahudeen, said stricter sanction for rape must be adopted to serve as a deterrent. Salahudeen said the group had commenced state-wide campaign tagged ‘SayingNoToRape’ as a result of increasing reports of rape across the country. “The union wishes to strongly recommend to the government to announce capital punishment as the wage for rape. This will serve as a deterrent and a serve-it-well yardstick for the perpetrators who are undoubtedly nothing but animals. “As Osun State Students, it is vital that our schools and home be safe spaces for us to learn and love without fear of harassment or abuse of our fundamental human rights,” NAOSS President said. Meanwhile, Speaker of Osun State House of Assembly, Mr. Timothy Owoeye, has expressed concern over the increasing rate of rape in the country. Mr. Owoeye, in a statement signed by his press secretary, Kunle Alabi in Osogbo on Thursday said anyone found guilty of rape by a court in Osun State would be liable to life imprisonment. The statement said Owoeye while speaking during the plenary lamented the growing trend of rape cases in Nigeria. “Osun is blessed to have enacted a law that imposes stiffer sentences on perpetrators of rape. Section 358 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol. 11, Laws of Osun State, 2002 prescribes a life sentence on anyone found guilty of committing rape while an attempt to commit rape attracts imprisonment of fourteen years. “I have taken my time to study the anti-rape laws across the country, I have also met with several groups who are at the forefront of the campaign against rape while praying to God to repose the soul of victims of rape, I stand with those who are alive and hope that the victims get justice. “I am well aware of the two recent cases in our state, the one involving a traditional ruler who allegedly raped a 14-year-old girl and a 27-year-old man who was arraigned for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl. “I want to charge our law enforcement agencies to diligently prosecute cases of rape. With too many instances, we must begin to hold people accountable no matter how highly placed,” Owoeye said.