Olaleye Aluko Suspected armed robbers have attacked a 52-year-old man, Olumuyiwa Akinfenwa, in the Egbeda area of Lagos State, torturing him to death. Our correspondent learnt that Akinfenwa, who lived on Peace Estate, Baruwa in the Ipaja area of the state, was discovered lying in a pool of his blood on Adepeju Street, Egbeda, after the robbery attack. According to the police, the victim was attacked on June 17 at about midnight by the assailants and the matter was reported at the Shasha Police Division. A police report obtained by our correspondent, said, “It is a case of suspected murder. One of the residents came to our station and reported that the victim aged 52 years old was beaten up in the night along Adepeju Street by unidentified men. But we believe the attackers are suspected armed robbers. “He was lying helplessly on the ground. Hence, the scene of the crime was visited by a team of detectives. The victim was confirmed dead by a medical doctor. We took photographs and the corpse has been removed and deposited at the Mainland General Hospital Mortuary, Ikeja for an autopsy. Investigation is in top gear to arrest the suspects.” One of the residents of the street, Akin Semiu, told our correspondent that the victim was rushed to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, but he did not make it. Semiu said, “He did not live in our area. He must have been on his way home to his estate. He was believed to be coming back from work. The men must have been trailing him. They reportedly robbed and tortured him, leaving him for dead. “The police should do a thorough investigation on this matter, because everyone on this street is afraid and interested in seeing the root of this murder.” The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, confirmed the murder, saying the matter had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Yaba, for further investigation. He said, “The police have commenced investigation into the circumstances leading to his murder. Two persons have been invited for questioning. But no suspect has been arrested yet. The matter is now transferred to SCID so that detectives can unravel the circumstances.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com