Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Police Command, on Monday, arraigned one Peter Moses, 20, before an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates’ Court for allegedly defiling his neighbour’s five-year-old daughter. The defendant is facing a count of rape. The police prosecutor, Inspector Monica Ikebuilo, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on June 2, 2020, in Ado-Ekiti. She stated that the defendant and the victim’s parents were neighbours. “The offence contravenes Section 31 (2) of the Child’s Right Law of Ekiti State, 2012,” Ikebuilo said. The prosecutor urged the court to remand the defendant in in a correctional centre pending legal advice from the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. The court did not take the plea of the defendant. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs Adefumike Anoma, ordered the remand of the defendant in the Nigerian Correctional Centre, Ado-Ekiti. She adjourned the case till July 21, 2020, for mention. Also on Monday, the police arraigned a 25-year-old man, Solomon Omole, before another Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates’ Court for allegedly stealing a baby. The police prosecutor, Inspector Bankole Olasunkanmi, alleged that Omole and others still at large stole an 18-month-old baby of one Mr Sunday Baba. According to him, the defendant and others still at large committed the offence on January 22, 2020, around 2pm in Itaji-Ekiti. The police prosecutor said the offence contravened Section 371 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. Olasunkanmi urged the court to adjourn the case to enable him to study the case file and assemble his witnesses. The counsel for the defendant, Mr Chris Omokahfe, pleaded with the court to admit his client to bail, promising that he would not jump bail. The Chief Magistrate, Mr Adedayo Oyebanji, admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N30,000 with a surety in like sum. Oyebanji ordered that the surety must be a level-7 officer in the civil service with proof of ownership of landed property. He adjourned the case till July 13, 2020, for hearing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 