Friday Olokor, Abuja THE Minister of State (Health), Dr Olorunimbe Mamora, has recommended what he described as “total penile amputation”, as punishment to check the rising wave of rape in Nigeria. According to him, the cases have increased within the period of COVID-19 lockdown because socialising has greatly reduced while “an idle mind is the devil’s workshop.” He, however, stated that it would be difficult to prove alleged rape, which took place 10 years ago because it would no longer be a fresh case. “But having said that, there is no defence; don’t forget there is also the factor of stigmatisation, which may make people to just downplay or fail to report it. And you also have the situation, where the victim is probably too young to express what has happened. “I think it is a phenomenon that we really need to look at very critically because it has become an epidemic,” the minister said. Mamora, in an interview with The PUNCH in Abuja on Friday, said he was recommending total penile amputation because a woman that had been raped might never get over it in her entire life. He said, “I had argued this at a forum before and I said without any reservations that if for the consideration for global approach to de-emphasising capital punishment, then what to me should be the minimum is total penile amputation because a woman that has been raped may never get over it in her entire life. “I think that it would appear that the incident has increased within this period of COVID-19, which may just be a factor of people being kept at home because of the lockdown; socialising has greatly reduced and like it is said, an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. “People cannot vent their excitement as before, where people can go to clubs, bars and all that and be able to express themselves. Yes, there must be factors that must be responsible for this upsurge of rape at this point in time, but there should be no excuse. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com