Ife Ogunfuwa HP Inc. has announced its commitment to eliminating 75 per cent of single-use plastic packaging by 2025 as part of efforts to reduce its environmental footprint. In its newly released 2019 Sustainable Impact Report, the company highlighted the progress it was making to drive diversity and inclusion as well as strengthen communities globally. “The HP culture has long been built on the belief that how we do things is just as important as what we do. Recent events have laid bare the systemic racism and deep inequalities that remain a stain on society, and it’s imperative for all companies to act with urgency on all fronts,” HP President and Chief Executive Officer, Enrique Lores, said. He said it was important for companies to hold themselves accountable and publicly report their progress. Lores said the company’s data showed that the number of African American employees was below where it needed to be, saying the company was taking actions to improve on this. Cadbury donates food, others to fight coronavirus Cadbury Nigeria Plc has announced the donation of its cocoa powder beverage, Bournvita, to food banks created by states to ease the effects of the coronavirus on the citizens. A statement from the company added that it donated face masks among others to its host community at Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos. It stated that the beneficiary states included Lagos, Rivers, Ondo, Ekiti, Oyo, Plateau and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The company said it also donated some products, along with face masks, to the palace of the Baale of Agidingbi, its host community, in Lagos State. The Managing Director of Cadbury Nigeria, Mrs Oyeyimika Adeboye, noted that the company was concerned with the disruptions the virus had caused in the economy and businesses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 