For Teteh Kuevi, a resident in Lagos, it is better to reserve what was left of his spending on his mum’s burial than “waste” it on an autopsy to unravel the cause of her death. The carpenter told PUNCH HealthWise that the 71-year-old woman took ill on January 24, 2017, and was placed on antimalarial medication. Her condition deteriorated three days later, prompting the family to rush her to Federal Medical Centre, Ebute Metta, Lagos. Unfortunately, she gave up the ghost hours after she was brought into the accident and emergency ward. While ruing the loss, the doctor asked if the family would request an autopsy, since the hospital was still in the process of diagnosing her condition before she died. Kuevi initially nodded convincingly but immediately retracted the approval when he learnt it would cost the family N80,000 for a pathologist to unravel the cause of her death. “How can I, that just barely managed to pay the hospital bills, waste another N80,000 because I want to find out what killed my aged mother? Although her death was painful to us, I convinced my family that it wasn’t necessary. “As the eldest son, it was common wisdom that I would be required to raise the larger chunk of the burial money. How much am I earning from my carpentry work? So we kicked against the idea and asked the hospital to release her body to us. “The old woman was buried some days later,” Kueyi said.. An autopsy is a surgical procedure that consists of a thorough examination of a corpse by dissection to determine the cause, mode, and manner of death or to evaluate any disease or injury that may be present for research or educational purposes. Family of five dead and buried in mysterious circumstances In a Punch report of June 19, the relatives of five family members who mysteriously died same night disclosed that they turned down the request for an autopsy after the pathologist told them to cough out N400,000. To continue reading this story, go to http://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com