Wale Oyewale, Ibadan Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has described the death of the foremost Ibadan businessman and philanthropist, Chief Bode Akindele, as a great loss to Oyo State in particular and Nigeria in general. The late Akindele, the Parakoyi of Ibadanland and chairman of Modandola Group, reportedly passed on in Lagos, on Monday. Governor Makinde, who described the deceased as a worthy elder statesman and one with a genuine interest in the welfare of others, said the late businessman would be sorely missed. Makinde, in a statement made available to journalists by his Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, said the late Akindele “contributed in no small measure to the growth of the state and his community.” READ ALSO: Renowned businessman, Bode Akindele, is dead The statement commiserated with the family of the deceased, the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, and the people of Oyo State, praying that the good Lord should grant them the fortitude to bear the loss. The statement read in parts, “The news of the death of our revered elder statesman, Chief Bode Akindele, the Parakoyi of Ibadanland and chairman, Modandola Group, came to us as a shock. “Baba Akindele was one of the worthy elder statesmen in the state and he lived a life worthy of emulation. As an elder, he was always after the progress and wellbeing of the state and its people. “I remember that only a few months ago when the state put out calls for support towards the Oyo State COVID-19 Endowment Fund, Baba Akindele was one of the elders who responded by donating N25 million to the state. “It is sad that we lost such a noble elder and philanthropist at such a moment as this. I pray to God to grant his entire family and the state the fortitude to bear this loss.” Meanwhile, the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, has described the persistent cases of deaths of Ibadan elders in recent times as one too many. The monarch expressed shock over the death of Parakoyi of Ibadanland barely four days after former Governor Abiola Ajimobi died. Oba Adetunji urged spiritual leaders in the city to intercede on behalf of the land. The Olubadan, who described Akindele as an astute businessman and entrepreneur of note, recalled how the late Parakoyi of Ibadan set up business outfits and employed indigent residents. Olubadan said, “Even though a man who lives up to 82 can be said to be advanced in age, when people mourn their loses it is because the vacuum left behind by them is always difficult if not impossible to fill.”