Kayode Oyero The Lagos State Government has commenced the registration of religious and social centres ahead of their reopenings in the state, The PUNCH reports. This was revealed by the Director-General of the State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, in a statement on Wednesday. He said hotels, bars, spas, cinemas, and many others were required to “immediately” register through a designated portal. “Further to the directive of Mr Governor with respect to the Register to Open initiative of the Lagos State Government, we hereby confirm that all Religious and Social centers (Social Clubs, Event Centres, Restaurants, Bars, Night Clubs, Spas, Cinemas and Gyms) within the State can commence the registration process on the designated portal: http://lasgsafetyreg.com immediately,” Mojola stated. The PUNCH reports that the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 during its briefing in Abuja on Monday lifted the restriction on religious gatherings in the country. READ ALSO: Reps reject castration as punishment for rapists However, the Lagos State Government through its Commissioner for Home Affairs,  Anofiu Elegushi, said the possibility of reopening churches and mosques in the state had been ruled out. “Even before the pronouncement by the Federal Government, we had been having meetings with the religious leaders; we even had one with the Safety Commission to look at the possibility of reopening religious houses. “We also had one with the leaders of the two faiths and I want to tell you categorically that at that meeting, the possibility of reopening religious houses was ruled out totally. “They claimed that they could not take responsibility for ensuring that only 20 or 50 people were praying behind them. For instance, an Imam said he didn’t know what could go on behind him immediately he begins to lead the prayer. He said if more than 20 or 50 people are staying behind him, he would not take responsibility for their presence. “We all know Lagos is still having high figures. So, definitely that will speak to our decision. But the governor of the state will come out with further directives,” Elegushi said.