Johnson Okafor The Nigerian Stock Exchange has commended Guinness Nigeria Plc for its business performance in the past 70 years. Guinness Nigeria, one of the pioneer companies to be listed on the NSE in the beer and beverage industry, marked its 70th anniversary with a Closing Gong ceremony at the Exchange. To commemorate the anniversary, its Chief Executive Officer, Mr Baker Magunda, was given the privilege to sound the digital closing gong of the NSE, accordingto a statement from the NSE. The Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema, said, “It is my great pleasure to congratulate the entire board and management of Guinness Nigeria Plc on this remarkable feat. “Over the course of this 70-year journey, we are glad to have partnered to positively influence business performance and outcomes both in making capital available for expansion and in impacting various communities through good corporate citizenship. “Today, the NSE reiterates its commitment to be your trusted business partner in achieving your strategic business objectives and celebrating milestones such as today.” On his part, the Guinness Nigeria CEO, said, “We are proud members of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, delivering value to our 68,000 shareholders and continuously growing our capital base. “Since we listed in 1965, we have enjoyed a favourable and fantastic relationship with NSE as well as with the professionals within The Exchange under the leadership of Mr Onyema. The NSE’s support as a key stakeholder has been unwavering and we will continue to treasure this partnership and growing with The Exchange. Magunda added, “Looking ahead, we are resolute in our commitment to contribute to Nigeria’s growth and while improving our performance for shareholders and investors.” According to the statement, during the ceremony, Onyema raised a toast to Guinness Nigeria’s 70th Anniversary with one of the brand’s premium drinks to the delight of Magunda. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com