Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt A Rivers State High Court presided over by Justice Chinwendu Worgu on Monday barred the former Deputy National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Victor Giadom, from parading himself as a member or officer of the APC. The judge gave the order in the motion ex parte filed by Okechukwu  Ogbonna and Mac-Lords Peterson against the Rivers State chapter of the APC and its acting Chairman, Igo Aguma; a former deputy national secretary of the APC Victor Giadom, and Chairman, Fact-Finding Committee, APC, Rivers State, Golden Chioma. The court said Giadom remained suspended from the party pending the determination of the motion on notice before the court, adding that Giadom, having been suspended by the State Executive Committee of APC, should not participate in the activities of the party pending determination of the substantive case. The court restrained Giadom from parading himself as an officer or member of the APC or exercise any right or privilege accruable to members. The matter was adjourned till July 9, 2020 for hearing. The Rivers State branch of the APC had earlier forwarded Worgu Boms as replacement for Victor Giadom, in the office of Deputy National Secretary and was sworn in on Monday by the National Working Committee of the party. The court further granted leave of substituted service of originating processes including the motion on notice on all the defendants adding that such processes should be pasted at the APC Secretariat in Port Harcourt.In his reaction, a former spokesman for the APC in Rivers State, Mr Chris Finebone, said the order of the Rivers State High Court was of no effect as a Federal High Court in Abuja had earlier declared him the National Chairman of the Party. He added that Giadom had filed contempt suit against Aguma and u Boms. Meanwhile, the APC National Vice Chairman (south south), Hilliard Eta, at a press conference,  said Giadom was not qualified to convene NEC meeting. He said Giadom was no longer a member of the NWC. Eta also said the APC NWC was not factionalised as was reported. He said, “It is not right to refer to 17 members, with 15 of them physically present and two who met with us virtually as a faction. This is the National Working Committee NWC of the APC in Nigeria. “As we speak, the membership of Chief Victor Giadom has been suspended by a competent court of jurisdiction in Port Harcourt. Not only is he not a member of the NWC, his membership of the APC has been suspended. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 