In recent times, Ondo State has become a theatre of political drama in the country following the ongoing political feud between Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and his deputy, Mr Agboola Ajayi. The duo have been at loggerheads politically over the forthcoming governorship election slated for October 2020. Last week, the media was awash with Ajayi’s exit from the All Progressives Congress, amid fanfare in his home town, Kiribo, in Ese Odo Local Government Area of the state. In following the party’s constitution, the deputy governor went to the APC secretariat in Apoi Ward 2, Kiribo, to announce his resignation from the ruling party. Immediately after, he proceeded to the Peoples Democratic Party secretariat in the same ward to register as a new member. Meanwhile, Ajayi’s defection has been generating reactions from both parties. One of such is the argument on the calls for him to resign his position as the deputy governor. Both Ajayi and his supporters regarded those making the calls as “mischief-makers and political ignoramus.” Ajayi maintained that he remained the deputy governor of the state, inasmuch as his people who elected him into office had not asked him to resign. He added that he had not violated the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by defecting to another party. Also, it was alleged that the governor planned to bribe the members of the state House of Assembly to begin the process of removing the embattled deputy governor from office, although this was swiftly debunked by the governor. The Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr Donald Ojogo, said, “For anyone to think that lawmakers have been financially induced is a gross display of emptiness. It becomes more laughable when such comes from someone who had boasted about having majority members in the Assembly.” As events unfold, there is already apprehension in the state that should Akeredolu and Ajayi get the APC and the PDP tickets respectively for the forthcoming governorship election in the state, the Sunshine State may experience the repeat of the 1983 political uproar and violence. That was the period the state had its first executive governor, Chief Adekunle Ajasin, who in an unprecedented manner locked horns with his deputy, Chief Akin Omoboriowo, in the 1983 governorship election in the old Ondo State. Both men are now late Ajasin contested under the platform of the Unity Party of Nigeria while Omoboriowo contested under the National Party of Nigeria platform. As it was then that Ajasin was older than his deputy, Akeredolu is also older than his deputy. Interestingly, irreconcilable differences between the governors and their deputies led to the defection of the deputies to the opposition parties in the state. There have been speculations in the state that it may be a repeat of the Ajasin/Omoboriowo era if Ajayi secures the PDP ticket to contest the election against his boss. Back then, Omoboriowo defected to the NPN and became the candidate of the party in the 1983 governorship election. Interestingly, the NPN was then the ruling party at the national level. The development overheated the polity as members of the same party later became political enemies. History has it that that hell was let loose when the Federal Electoral Commission announced Omoboriowo as the winner of the election. Akure and towns in the state were seized with violence. It was recorded that many people were killed while houses were burnt during the violence that ensued. Some analysts believe that the current political development in the state may lead to the repeat of the 1983 violence unless stakeholders in the election take precautionary measures to avert the looming crisis. Already, as the deputy governor left the ruling party, many supporters of the governor have accused him of betraying his boss. Some people are already introducing senatorial narrative into the matter as they believe that the Ondo North Senatorial District, where Akeredolu hails from, should be allowed to complete eight years in the control of the state. Impliedly, they are advocating that Akeredolu’s second term should be supported. On the other hand, the people of the Ondo South Senatorial District, where Ajayi hails from, are ready to give him their full support if he emerges as the candidate from the senatorial district. The rising apprehension over the October 10 election has made concerned individuals to call on the Independent National Electoral Commission as well as the participating political parties to put in place measures that will ensure the election peaceful. The state chairman of the APC, Mr Ade Adetimehin, has however, expressed assurance that the forthcoming election will not be violent. He said members of the party had been advised to shun any act of hooliganism and violence. He added that there was no way the 1983 violence could be repeated in the state because voters were now wiser in the area of political culture than how they were in the Second Republic. He said, “Anybody that works towards having the 1983 violence in this coming election is an enemy of Ondo State. Election will come and go but the state will remain. We are the natives of this state, we don’t have any other place to run to, so if we destroy the state or kill one another in the name of election, of what gain is that?” “We in the APC don’t preach violence; we don’t tolerate violence and we have been talking to our members not to get provoked in case there is intimidation or harassment in any quarter. We will abide by the rules and regulations of the game. I want to assure you that this election will not cause any violence. A political scientist, Mr Abolore Ibrahim, was of the opinion that there must be serious caution from the political class. He said if Akeredolu and Ajayi were to be candidates of their political parties in the election, all the stakeholders must rise against violence because the rift between the governor and his deputy started while they were in the same party, not to talk of now that they are now opponents. He stated, “I was a living witness to the 1983 violence and I don’t pray for this state to have such experience again. However, if we don’t want to experience such again, all the stakeholders, I mean the security agencies, INEC, political parties and the electorate must put all hands on the deck to ensure we have a violence-free election, particularly if Akeredolu and his deputy who are already at loggerheads now, are going to be candidates of their parties. We can’t afford to be killing one another because of elections.” A resident of Akure and member of the PDP in the Akure South Local Government Area of the state, Mrs Adeola Adesolape, who also witnessed the 1983 violence, said there was a need to prevent a recurrence. Adesolape said, “I don’t think anybody is ready to die or lose property to any political violence. We politicians need to talk to ourselves. Though tension will rise during the election, it won’t lead to killing of our brothers and sisters for political reasons. A member of the APC today may be a member of the PDP tomorrow and vice versa. Personally, I don’t pray we experience what happened in 1983 in this state again, especially in Akure.” In the same vein, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ondo State Command, Mr Tee-Leo Ikoro, said the command would not tolerate any act of violence before, during and after the election. Ikoro added, “The police will be adequately prepared for the forthcoming governorship election in Ondo State when the time comes. Our personnel will be deployed in various areas to ensure miscreants do not have their ways to cause trouble. Anybody caught in the act of violence will be dealt with accordingly.” In a reaction, the Ondo State PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr Zadok Akintoye, however, ruled out violence in the coming election, stressing that his party was set for free and fair election in October. He said, “The issue of electoral violence is totally dependent on the assurances of free, fair and transparent electoral processes. As citizens, we are all intrinsically desirous of a system where justice is seen to be done at all times and so, our party is totally considerate of the desire for free and fair processes and is committed to ensuring that whosoever emerges victorious, does so through a free, fair, transparent process. “The presumption that the election would be between Agboola and Akeredolu in itself cannot be a fair position considering that party primaries have not been conducted. For all sides, we must however realise that 1983 is about 37 years ago and those who instigated and promoted violence then have grown old regretting their decisions.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 