Sodiq Oyeleke The Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, has tackled the Appeal Committee of the All Progressives Congress for upholding his “unjust disqualification”. This was contained in a statement by the Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, on Sunday. The statement also described the upholding of Obaseki’s disqualification by the Adams Oshiomhole’s led National Working Committee of the APC as a charade. The PUNCH reports that the Screening Committee of the APC had on Thursday said the governor was ineligible to participate in the party’s governorship primary election over alleged discrepancies in his certificate. On Friday, the appeal committee of the party upheld the decision of the screening committee, saying that “We also find it difficult to vouch for the authenticity of his National Youth Service Corps certificate, there is no indication as to where he served. We find that he should be disqualified.” But the governor alleged that the committee members disqualified him to “satisfy their paymaster”. The statement read, “The charade of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his puppet screening committees seems to know no end and their commitment towards the destruction of what is left of the smoldering integrity of our great party under Oshiomhole’s watch appears assured. “As if the embarrassment which they brought to the party through the shameless and unjust disqualification of Governor Godwin Obaseki by the screening committee was not sufficient, they have now gone ahead to announce that the appeal committee has upheld the dubious disqualification. “The question is how does an Appeal Committee claim to uphold an issue that was not appealed. “The governor has been unequivocal in his stance that he was not going to appeal the so-called disqualification by a screening committee that can best be described as a gathering of court jesters, who congregated to massage the ego of their paymaster, who is Comrade Oshiomhole. “Juxtaposing this comical, distasteful and disgraceful charade against the mantra of change, integrity, social justice and progress, which ought to be the character of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), reveals the depth of the abyss into which Comrade Oshiomhole has dragged the party. “While thanking the members of our great party in Edo State and the governor’s teeming supporters across party divides and the entire spectrum of the society for their firm solidarity and unwavering support, we call on them to remain focused on the ultimate objective, which is sustaining the good governance and growth trajectory of Edo State through the leadership of Governor Obaseki, from 2020 to 2024.”