Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The Chairman, Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission, House of Representatives, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, has challenged the Interim Management Committee of the commission to show proof that the National Assembly is frustrating its activities. Tunji-Ojo, while reacting to a petition filed by the Chairman, Board of Trustees, Ijaw National Congress, Chief Edwin Clark, challenged the management of the NDDC to approach anti-corruption agencies with evidence that he or other members of his panel are corrupt. Clark had petitioned the National Assembly, asking its leadership to remove and investigate the chairmen of its committees in charge of NDDC probe. In an ‘open letter’ dated June 1, 2020, Clark had called on the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila to remove the Chairmen of the Senate Committee on Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi; and House Committee on NDDC, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo and investigate the allegations of corruption leveled against them by the Interim Management Committee of the NDDC. READ ALSO: Another student raped, killed in Ibadan, Ekiti hawker defiled Both the Senate and the House had on May 5, 2020, separately resolved to investigate the alleged extra-budgetary spending by the NDDC amounting to N40bn. Reacting to the letter, Tunji-Ojo dismissed the allegations as untrue, challenging NDDC management to provide evidence to back the corruption claim, challenging it to approach anti-graft agencies with them. He said, “I want to state very clearly that Baba Edwin Clark is our revered leader, not just to the Niger Delta but also to Nigeria. He is a man that has committed so much towards the development of the Niger Delta. But the point that I personally disagree with is the issue of documentary evidence and delay of the budget. “I have challenged the IMC more than three times on all media platforms, that if there is any documentary evidence against me, they should either bring it out or petition and submit such to the relevant government anti-corruption agencies. After all, I am a lawmaker and I do not enjoy any immunity. So, if there is any proof, they should act and stop throwing tantrums.”