Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Operatives of the Intelligence Response Team have arrested members of a kidnap syndicate, who allegedly killed three of their victims after collecting N7.5m ransom from their family members. The Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, disclosed this in Abuja on Monday while parading 26 suspects arrested for kidnapping, armed robbery, unlawful possession of firearms and other sundry offences. According to Mba, the kidnap syndicate abducted one Dr Audu Benedict, his son and a friend of the family, who were on their way to Abuja. While in captivity, the suspects were said to have contacted the families of their victims, who subsequently paid N7m to secure their release. “Before the ransom was paid, the suspects forced Benedict to raise a cheque of N500,000, which was successfully cashed,” Mba stated. He, however, regretted that the syndicate went ahead to kill their victims, notwithstanding the ransom. He stated, “Among the suspects, we have a kidnap syndicate that specialises in terrorising people of the North-Central zone. “A ransom of N7m was paid by the family of Dr Audu Benedict. While in captivity, the doctor also raised a cheque of N500,000, bringing the total to N7.5m. “After collecting the ransom, the suspects went ahead to kill the doctor, his son and the family friend.” He added that the gang also kidnapped one Veronica Aboyi, who is related to one of the suspects. READ ALSO: Anambra woman, medicine dealer nabbed for illegal abortion Two of the suspects, Gwar Henry and one Bello, admitted the crime. The police said six AK-47 rifles, three pump action rifles and other weapons were recovered from the gang. Meanwhile, the police said they rescued six children “stolen sometime last year.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 