Matthew Ochei, Asaba The youth leader in the Ohoror community, Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State, Mr Alex Orukevwe, has been kidnapped. PUNCH Metro gathered that Orukevwe was kidnapped on Tuesday around 7pm on the Ughelli-Patani Road, as the abductors shot indiscriminately in the air to scare passers-by. The kidnappers were said to have since contacted the victim’s family with his mobile phone and demanded N30m as ransom. The President of the youth wing, Urhobo Progressive Union Worldwide, Kelly Umukoro, who disclosed information about the abduction in a post on his Facebook page, said enough was enough of kidnapping in the state. He demanded the unconditional release of Orukevwe. Umukoro wrote, “I am on my way to the community. But I am calling on the kidnappers to as a matter of urgency release the youth president. “In the last two days, there have been various kidnap operations on that route. First, it was Samuel Marierie, a former lawmaker, and then Samuel Adjogbe and now, Orukevwe. “This is a warning to all criminal-minded persons in Delta Central to flee the area, because the youth will not fold their arms and watch this continue.” While calling on the police and vigilante groups to secure his unconditional release, Umukoro said the youth wing of the UPU would be available to assist in any way possible to ensure the freedom of their kinsman. The police spokesperson in the state, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed the abduction on Wednesday, adding that the police were on a manhunt for the culprits and to secure the release of the youth leader. She said, “The information is that a driver called the victim’s brother that his vehicle was parked along the highway and he suspected that the owner might have been abducted. “The vehicle has been recovered and taken to the station and the DPO, Ughelli Police Division, is doing everything possible to rescue the victim.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 