Kelvin Ekerete Bettors and football punters across the country are in ecstatic mood with the gradual return of football leagues across Europe after months of inactivity due to the coronavirus outbreak. Some of the bettors however expression caution over the form of the players, who return after a lengthy lay-off occasioned by COVID-19. The German Bundesliga and Spanish LaLiga have resumed, while the English Premier League begins on Wednesday (today). The Italian Serie A is billed to return on Saturday. “I’m excited at the return of the leagues. There are several teams in the big leagues that are sure bankers for us bettors and having them back shows that we can make some money almost every week. This past weekend, I won some money from LaLiga and Bundesliga teams and I’m hoping more can come when the EPL and the Serie A resume,” Emeka Abara, a cinematographer, said. “Honestly, it’s been a while since I missed anything as much as I missed betting in the last three months. I am happy it is back but it is sad I’m yet to win anything. It is understandable because teams are battling relegation and there are bound to be upsets. But I’m sure of having extra cash when the bigger teams get into their groove,” Bamidele Koleosho, a student, stated. Although many are excited at having some of the best teams on their betting slips, some bettors are mindful of returning to booking games as they fear some of the top teams may not be in the best shape. “Jumping straight back into punting won’t be easy for me because I need to watch and understand the rhythm the teams will return with, and then decide where to put my money. I also need to judge the players’ fitness and team rhythm post-lockdown for teams I punt on,” photographer, Adio Lafeef, said. “I’m more worried about the results which are quite unusual. Only Bayern Munich won at home last weekend in the Bundesliga. Now it has to be about what teams can do on the pitch,” Damilola Alagbe, a digital content producer, told The PUNCH. “I feel nervous because so many things might have happened to alter the flow of game result patterns,” operator of a betting punting handle on Twitter, @bettingrepublic, stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 