Samson Folarin and Bola Bamigbola Another set of 13 armed youths from the northern part of the country have been intercepted by the Amotekun corps in Ikire, while trying to enter Osun State. Recall that 17 youths who claimed to be miners were on Sunday stopped from entering the state in Ikire. The Director General of the Amotekun Corps in the state, Amitolu Shittu, on Tuesday, told our correspondent that the suspects were all from the north and were conveyed in five commercial buses alongside other passengers before they were intercepted on Monday. Shittu said when the youths were checked, machetes and charms were found on them. He said, “When we searched the youths, we found machetes, cutlasses, shovels and charms on them.” The state Amotekun boss said the youths claimed they were labourers going to some mining sites in the state, but could not explain how they came about the weapons found on them. Meanwhile in Lagos, some northern youths have been arrested by the police at the OPIC/Kara end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. It gathered that the men were in a truck with cows being transported to Lagos. They were, however, stopped at the checkpoint mounted by officers enforcing the inter-state ban due to the COVID-19 pandemic. An eyewitness, Bisi Ogunsakin, said the police queried the youths about their mission in Lagos. She said, “The policemen asked those boys to sit down and stopped their trailer from moving.” It was learnt that the youths were taken to the Warewa Police Station and were released on bail. The Divisional Police Officer in charge of Warewa Police Station in Ogun State, Folakemi Afeniforo, denied knowledge of the incident. The police spokespersons for Lagos, Bala Elkana, and his Ogun State counterpart, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said they would get back to our correspondent. The Chief Security Officer, Hausa community, Kara-Ibafo, Usman Aliyu, confirmed the arrest to our correspondent. He said the six Arewa youths “were coming to Lagos inside a truc and the police threatened to take them back to the north,” Aliyu said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 