Deji Lambo A man, Chris Ndukwe, has reportedly committed suicide after stabbing his lover, Olamide Alli, to death at his place of residence on the Victory Point Estate in the Ilasan area of Lagos State. Although the reasons for Ndukwe’s action remain unclear, PUNCH Metro gathered that the 39-year-old and Olamide had been in a complicated relationship that produced two children and they were living apart in the Ilasan and Ogba areas of the state. Before the tragic incident, it was learnt that Olamide and her yet-to-be-identified sister visited Ndukwe in his house, and while the children and Olamide’s sister slept in a room, the lovers were said to have slept in another room. However, a disagreement was said to have ensued between the lovers and Ndukwe allegedly stabbed the 25-year-old to death with knives and allegedly committed suicide by drinking a substance suspected to be an insecticide. A source told PUNCH Metro, “We don’t know why he killed her, because the two of them were the only ones in the room. “The man stabbed Olamide with knives and drank an insecticide to kill himself.” The lovers’ bodies were discovered when the yet-to-be-identified sister went to ask them to tune down the volume of the music emanating from their room. The Ilasan Police Division was immediately informed and its personnel found Olamide in a pool of her blood, while, Ndukwe was motionless and had a foamy substance coming out of his mouth. Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said the corpses had been deposited in a morgue for autopsy, adding that the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered an investigation into the case. He stated that two blood-stained kitchen knives, two empty bottles of the insecticide, three empty cans of energy drink and a pair of pliers were recovered from the scene of the incident Elkana stated, “On Sunday, June 21, 2020, around 4pm, the Ilasan Police Station received a piece of information that a couple, identified as Olamide Alli, 25, and Chris Ndukwe, 39, were found dead in the man’s residence on Road 5, House 16A, Victory Point Estate, Ilasan. A team of homicide detectives was deployed in the scene and the crime scene was preserved for forensic analysis. “The woman was found lying in a pool of her own blood with deep cuts on her head. The man’s mouth was foaming with a whitish substance. It was alleged that the man stabbed the woman to death with kitchen knives and thereafter drank a poisonous substance suspected to be insecticide. Two blood-stained kitchen knives, two empty bottles of the poisonous substance, three empty cans of energy drink and a pair of pliers were recovered from the scene. “The corpses were removed and deposited in a public mortuary for autopsy. Information gathered from some family members revealed that the couple were in a relationship for over seven years though they were not married, but had two boys, aged seven and three together. The relationship was described as complicated as the couple were on and off over the years. While the man lived at the Victory Point Estate, Ilasan, the woman lived in Ogba. “The woman was said to have visited the man alongside her 22-year-old sister the night before the incident on his invitation. The woman’s sister was the first to notice that the couple were dead and raised the alarm. In her statement, she said she was roused from her sleep by the loud music from the room where the corpses were found, as she and the kids slept in a different room. It is not yet clear what triggered the murder, but investigation is ongoing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 