Sodiq Oyeleke Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, has likened the circumstances that surrounded his emergence as governor to the events that characterised June 12, 1993 election. He said this in his Democracy Day message on Friday. According to him, June 12 is a clear testament that power absolutely comes from God. The PUNCH reports that on February 13, 2020, a five-member panel of the Supreme Court led by Mary Odili declared Diri winner of the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa after the Independent National Electoral Commission earlier announced David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress winner. Lyon was sacked on the grounds that his deputy, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, presented false information before the commission. Diri said, “As I send my inaugural Democracy Day message to Bayelsans, I can identify many similarities in my emergence as governor of this state and the June 12 saga. I recall with deep sorrow, the blood of Martyrs of Nembe, innocent lives brutally terminated during the November 16 campaigns by anti-democratic forces – they will forever be recognised as our own heroes of democracy. READ ALSO: We’re probing ex-govs, serving governors, fronts –EFCC “Our support transcended clans, communities, kingdoms, and faiths. Again, when the corporate will of the people had been disdainfully cast aside and election results concocted, our mandate was divinely restored at the 11th hour, by the God who resides in heaven and rules in the affairs of men.” He noted that the circumstances that surrounded his emergence made him commit his administration “to embrace the spirit of inclusiveness and equity for all our people without considering party or political tendencies. In our unity lies our strength. “That is why I recognise the divine duty of this government to be faithful to the covenant of Prosperity we have with the people of Bayelsa. In fittingly honouring June 12 as Democracy Day, I have no greater responsibility or obligation as governor of Bayelsa State than ensuring that we live in peace so that the prosperity we all covet will be quickly manifest.”