Olalekan Adetayo,  Adelani Adepegba and Gbenga Odogun THE Chief Judge of Kogi State, Nasir Ajanah, who died on Sunday at the Gwagwalada COVID-19 isolation centre in Abuja, the nation’s capital, has been buried. The interment, which took place at Gudu cemetery, Abuja, was attended by some prominent Nigerians, including the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello. Justice Ajanah, who died in Abuja in the early hours of Sunday, aged 64, hailed from Okehi Local Government Area of Kogi State. Ajanah’s death from COVID-19 complications may have put a lie to Bello’s claims that there was no coronavirus case in Kogi. TheCable reports that he was in isolation for about three weeks before his passage. Before his body was moved to the burial ground, the Muslim janaza prayers for the dead were said for him on the premises of the isolation centre. Meanwhile, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Sunday condoled with the government and people of Kogi State over the death of Ajana. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President noted that the deceased’s brilliant legal career would remain a reference. The statement read, “President Buhari believes the late chief judge made a remarkable impact on the state, his chosen profession and community, with clear evidence that his death will create a huge gap in the judiciary.” Also, the Kogi State Government described the death of Ajana, as a massive blow to the government and people of Kogi State. The state Commissioner for Information, Kingsley Fanwo, in a statement on Sunday said Justice Ajana would be “solely missed for his tenacity of purpose and outstanding commitment to the sanctity of the temple of justice.” Similarly, former governor of the state, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, under who Justice Ajana became the chief judge, described his (Ajana) death as a great loss to the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 