Nantes Nigerian winger Moses Simon talks about his successful debut season in France, missing the 2018 World Cup, Gernot Rohr and more in this interview with JOHNNY EDWARD How do you feel ending the season as Nantes’ Player of The Year? I feel so happy winning the Player of The Year award in my debut season. It’s a thing of joy for me. We all know that the French Ligue 1 is very difficult, but within a year I won this prestigious award. All thanks to my teammates and the coach who helped me settle in well at the club when I arrived. Honestly, it was a great experience for me. I can say it was a great season for me in France, having scored some goals and had some assists too. I scored some crucial goals for my team. I think I adjusted quickly to French football and this helped me to settle down very well as a professional player. French football suits my game since I was able to post some splendid performances. Again, winning the Man of The Match award in 10 games and winning the Player of The Month once in the club makes me feel good. For me to have played as a point man in some games tells you that French football suits my style of play. I think hard work and God’s favour made my football click in France. You had several offers before Nantes came calling, why did you opt for the Ligue 1 side? I had several offers from other leagues while with Levante but I chose to come to France and particularly Nantes because at that time it was the best option for me. They have a similar style with the way I love to play and they have in their ranks very good players and a good coach who is doing great things. These were part of the reasons I decided to join the club, initially on loan, before sealing a permanent deal. With nine goals and eight assists in 30 games in Ligue 1, would you say this was your best ever season in Europe, having played for Trencin and KAA Gent? This season was one of the best seasons I’ve had in Europe but not the best because nothing compares to winning the title. The best for me was when I won the title with Gent, just months after I arrived. But it was a good debut season for me in Ligue 1 with the goals and assists. You’ve played in LaLiga and Ligue 1. What’s the difference between both leagues? The difference in both leagues is how they play and how they set up their teams. LaLiga is all about techniques, while the French Ligue 1 is all about pace, physicality and strength. That’s a major difference. But both leagues are really good. Playing in both leagues has improved me a lot, it has been a good experience for me. Fans have labeled Ligue 1 ‘Farmers League’ because of Paris Saint-Germain’s dominance. What is your take on it? I don’t support the notion that Ligue 1 is a farmer’s league due to PSG’s dominance. It’s a great league. PSG have quality players and they are a rich team. It’s difficult to compare PSG and other teams because of the calibre of players in their ranks and the titles they’ve won in the last six years. When teams are ready to spend big money, they will attract big players like them as well. How disappointed were you missing out on the 2018 World Cup in Russia, bearing in mind you were one of the Super Eagles’ best players during the qualifiers? Of course, I was disappointed I didn’t make the final squad. I believe in one thing, and that is, all things work together for good to them that love God. With the help of friends and family, especially my wife, I was able to come through that harsh time. They all encouraged me and helped me to come back stronger. I’m proud to be part of the team that qualified for the World Cup in Russia. I can’t explain the feeling but sadly I missed out. Do you think your position in the national team is under threat from the likes of Henry Onyekuru, Samuel Kalu, Samuel Chukwueze and Ahmed Musa? We have quality wingers in the Eagles. I believe we are all good additions to the squad, but I must say good players are not scared of competitions. We need stiff challenges in the team, which all these names you mentioned offer. So, we all need to work hard to make it difficult for the coach in his bid to select the best to start games for the team. I believe any winger the coach picks will get the job done. Onyekuru, Kalu, Chukwueze and captain Ahmed Musa all have different qualities which makes us all valuable to the team. Eagles coach Gernot Rohr’s been handed a new two-year deal by the Nigeria Football Federation.  What does it mean to you as a player and the squad as a whole? It’s a good decision by the NFF to hand the coach a new deal. It’s also a boost for him and the entire team. But we now need to work harder and achieve something better than what we have with him. That’s all. Off the pitch, how has marriage and being a father influenced you as a player? Being a father has helped me a lot to stay focus. I now work harder to make my family proud. My marital status doesn’t come with pressure, anyway. I love my status now and I’m enjoying every bit of it. How have you been coping during this pandemic? I’ve been staying safe, adhering strictly to the health rules stipulated by the government here. Hopefully, normalcy will return soon to the world and we can play football again with the fans. I miss football, but health matters. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 