Ade Adesomoju, Abuja THE Federal High Court in Abuja on Thursday ruled that former minister of Interior, Abba Moro, had a case to answer in respect of the charges of fraud arising from the conduct of the botched 2014 Nigerian Immigration Service recruitment in 2014. Delivering judgment on the no-case submission filed by Moro and his co-defendants, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba exonerated them of seven out of the total 11 counts and ordered them to defend themselves in respect of the remaining charges in Counts 2, 4, 5 and 11. The court therefore dismissed Counts 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 counts. It adjourned till October 29 for the defendants to open their defence in respect of the remaining four counts. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had in 2016 instituted the 11 counts against Moro, a former Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mrs. Anastasia Daniel-Nwobia; and a deputy director in the ministry, Mr. Femi Alayebami. The other defendant is Drexel Tech. Nigeria Limited, the contractor that carried out the botched NIS recruitment on behalf of the ministry. EFCC accused Moro, who is now the Senator representing Benue south, and his co-defendants of offences bordering on obtaining money by pretext, procurement fraud and money laundering. The defendants allegedly defrauded 675,675 graduate applicants of N675,675,000, with each of the applicants made to pay N1,000 to access an e-portal to apply for job openings. The physical aspect of the recruitment test in March 2014 led to the death of 15 applicants, as many others were injured in stampedes in Abuja, Port Harcourt and Minna during the exercise. The prosecution closed its case with 12 witnesses and 57 documentary exhibits on November 25, 2019. Ruling on Thursday, Justice Dimgba discharged and acquitted the defendants in respect of Counts 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, but said they must answer to Counts 2, 4, and 5 relating to violation of  Public Procurement Act, 2007, and Count 11 relating to alleged lack of security safeguard for the physical part of the recruitment process. As for Counts 2, 4 and 5, the judge ordered them to show how section 15(2) of the Public Procurement Act, 2007, which gives an exemption for obtaining a certificate of no objection from the Bureau of Public Procurement, was applicable in the contract awarded to Drexel. He added that the defendants “also need to show that they did not use their office, as alleged by the prosecution, to grant undue advantage to the 4th defendant (Drexel) in respect of this contract.” But dismissing Count 1, Justice Dimgba held that the N1,000 charged per individual “was approved by the relevant government agency, the Federal Character Commission.” He said the prosecution failed to call any applicant to testify that he or she was deceived into paying the money. He also dismissed Counts 6 and 7 in which Drexel was alleged not to be legally incorporated. The judge commended the EFCC investigators for investigating the case with an open mind, but noted that they “proceeded from prejudiced view.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 