John Alechenu, Abuja The Senator Abiola Ajimobi-led National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress has raised the alarm over an alleged plot by some unnamed persons, to burn down the APC National Secretariat. National Vice Chairman (South-South), Hilliard Eta, who raised the alarm while speaking to newsmen, in Abuja, on Wednesday, also alleged that his life was being threatened. Eta said, “We got information that they are going to send thugs from Port Harcourt, they are coming here to burn the Secretariat and make it look like the National Working Committee instigated a fire incident so that the Secretariat will be burnt down and then, they will give the impression that it is the NWC that is burning down the Secretariat because they don’t want Victor Giadom to come in. READ ALSO: Edo 2020: NWC members not tax collectors, PDP replies Wike “They have two intentions, that is number one. Number two is that they are going to make an attempt on my life. I just thought that I should let the press know this.“ He, however, did not name the person or group of persons who made the threat or what form it took. In response to a question whether he has shared this information with the police, he said, “I am just moving out of my house, I’m coming to Secretariat from there I will report to the police.“ Reacting to Eta’s claims, Victor Giadom said, “Ordinarily, I would not have reacted. If he has such information, let him report to the Police. The police have the capability to track such persons. Maybe that is his plan because we all know that there is a ban on interstate movement and it is difficult. He should report to the police if he has any such information except ofcourse he is the one planning to bring in people from Calabar.” A leadership crisis engulfed the APC following an Appeal Court judgement which upheld the decision of an FCT High Court which restrained the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshimohole from parading himself as chairman. Since this decision on Tuesday, last week, there have been two claimants to the position of acting National Chairman. The Ex-Deputy National Secretary of the party, Victor Giadom, declared himself acting chairman citing a subsisting court order. However, 17 out of the 21 members of the NWC, elected Senator Abiola Ajimobi who is indisposed as acting chairman and later appointed the National Vice Chairman, South-South, Hilliard Eta, to act on his behalf. 