To commemorate the World Milk Day which is marked globally on June 1, premium milk brand, Peak Milk kicked off a series of events, campaigns, broadcasts, and projects around Nigeria. The line-up of events was completely traditional to Peak Milk’s brand and aligned with its vision to not only make quality, healthy milk easily available and accessible, but to integrate healthy habits into every Nigerian’s daily food plan. For this year’s events, Peak Milk chose to take on an almost completely virtual means to hosting the national breakfast week activities, leveraging on the best and most accessible virtual platforms and outlets available. Activities held during the week in celebration of World Milk Day involved Peak Milk’s partnership with the Nutrition Society of Nigeria to further boost the #EnjoyDairy World Milk Day theme. These events were also positioned to highlight the importance of optimum nutrition in building one’s immunity and encourage many to begin to cultivate healthy lifestyles. Also, in a demonstration of respect and admiration, during the National Breakfast Week, Peak catered sumptuous breakfast meals to healthcare workers and their patients at COVID-19 isolation centres, in Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Onikan, Agidingbi and Ikota, Lekki. Dubbed the “Breakfast of Hope”, the gesture from Nigeria’s foremost dairy brand raises a glass of milk to Nigerians for bravery and steadfastness while uncertain times last.  It is imperative to reiterate the fact that milk is a great source of essential vitamins and minerals, and a great asset to the body, helping to protect the heart, and build stronger bones. Speaking on the campaign, Peak Milk’s Marketing Manager, Grace Onwubuemeli said, “The National Breakfast Week and World Milk Day events are highly important to the brand because it serves as a wonderful opportunity to promote the culture of breakfast and get more families and individuals to take it seriously. It is also crucial to us that we use the occasion to remind and educate people on the abundant nutrients that can be found in Peak Milk and why they should continue to enjoy dairy products”. These events and campaigns were in the form of thoughtfully curated discussions on various national TV stations like Channels TV and Television Continental (TVC), radio stations, and wide-spanned social media campaigns that worked to enlighten Nigerians on the importance of incorporating milk into their daily food plan, particularly at breakfast, the most important meal of the day. “We are also thankful for the ability to carry out some outreach activities which involved catering to health workers and people in isolation centers, and generally sharing the goodness of milk. A show of respect for the valour these frontline workers have shown and as well, a message of hope and recovery to victims of the pandemic in these trying times.” Onwubuemeli continued. 