ABIODUN NEJO THE  Chairman, Nigeria Union of Pensioners, Ekiti State, Ayo Kumapayi, has called on the state government to clarify the alternative financial instrument being proposed by the state government to hasten payment of over N13.5billion in unpaid gratuities, and N2.7billion in outstanding pensions. Kumapayi said the pensioners did not understand what the state government meant by saying it would pay as much as 50 per cent of the outstanding on or before the end of the Dr Kayode Fayemi administration in 2022. The pensioners’ leader, who spoke at a press conference in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, on Friday, said the senior citizens deserved clarification on the payment mode, especially as it affected them. He said, “We support the position of the government regarding its plan to explore viable means to reduce the waiting time of affected retirees before getting their entitlement. But it is disturbing that government failed to come out in clear terms and this is what we are requesting. “We cannot continue to fold our arms while our people are dying on a daily basis and suffering as a result of poor attention by government and irregularities in the payment of their rightful benefits. “Why we are afraid now is that the state government at its executive council meeting talked about 50 per cent, it also talked of voluntary, we are confused because we don’t see any way voluntary should have come into the picture. “Right now, everybody takes full gratuities, you cannot make it voluntary for people to take their gratuities. We don’t understand the aspect of voluntary. We really want to know the type of financial arrangement the government wants to make. “We are saying that we should be invited for discussions. Our members are already agitated,”Kumapayi said. The state commissioner for Information, Muyiwa Olumilua, in a statement last week, said, “The exco’s approval of the voluntary alternative payment instrument is premised on Governor Fayemi’s conviction that every worker is worthy of their wages during their lifetime.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com