Kelvin Ekerete Five Super Eagles players will be in action as football return to the English Premier League and the Championship, with Alex Iwobi, Leon Balogun, Semi Ajayi, Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi expected to be in action. Leicester City’s Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho will be hoping to help the Foxes increase their chances of qualifying for the UEFA Champions League when they visit Isaac Success’ Watford at the Vicarage Road Stadium on Saturday (today). Ndidi has been one of Leicester’s stand-out players this season, while Iheanacho has served as a credible backup for Jamie Vardy during his time on the sidelines due to injuries. Iheanacho has three goals and four assists in 12 league games, while Ndidi has found the back of the net twice in 23 appearances. Iwobi will fancy a starting role when Everton welcome log leaders, Liverpool, to the Goodison Park in a Merseyside derby on Sunday. The Nigerian will be hoping to help the Toffees win their first derby game against the Reds since 2010. Iwobi, who joined the Toffees from Arsenal last summer, has scored one goal in 18 appearances. The forward has not featured consistently for new manager, Carlo Ancelotti. In the Championship, Ajayi will be in West Brom’s squad against neighbours Birmingham at the Hawthorns on Saturday. The Super Eagles defender has been a consistent member of Slaven Bilić’s team, helping them concede the fewest goals in the ongoing campaign (30). The Baggies are currently second on the log, one point adrift of leaders Leeds United. Ajayi has scored five league goals in 35 appearances for the EPL hopefuls. Also, Balogun will be hoping to help steer Wigan away from relegation waters and help them continue their unbeaten run when they visit Huddersfield in a match-day 38 fixture at the John Smith’s Stadium. Football in England resumed on June 17 after sporting activities in the country was suspended in March due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 