Nike Popoola Taxaide Technologies Limited has highlighted the need for public institutions to take data protection more seriously. The firm, a National Information Technology Development Agency-licensed data protection compliance organisation, said this in a statement on Wednesday. The NITDA, in pursuant of its powers under the NITDA Act, had on May 18, 2020 issued the guidelines for the management of personal data by public institutions, as the June 30 deadline for the filing of data protection audits by data controllers drew closer. The Partner in charge of Data Protection Compliance Services at Taxtech, Oyeyemi Oke, said it was imperative to take the conversation of data protection beyond private organisations. According to him, public institutions are custodians of an immense volume of data and without due processes in place, and there are higher chances of data breach and abuse of privacy of the data subjects. Oke said, “The Nigeria Data Protection Regulation has provided a means to ensure the data of Nigerian citizens and all persons living within Nigeria are protected and the regulations must be adhered to by all and sundry if we are to achieve the highest standards of data privacy as a nation. “There should be no sacred cows whether in the private or public sector.” Data controllers were required to engage the services of DPCOs to assist with the compliance process of filing their statutory annual data protection audits with NITDA, or risk the penalty of N10m or two per cent of their global revenues, whichever was greater in the event of a data breach, the statement said. The NDPR aims to safeguard the right of natural persons to data privacy, foster safe conduct of transactions involving exchange of personal data and prevent manipulations of personal data. It imposed numerous compliance obligations on data controllers and processors in their collection and processing of personal data of natural persons. The scope of data controllers and processors include banks, financial institutions, telecommunication companies, payment companies, internet and IT companies, ministries, departments and agencies of federal and state governments, electoral bodies, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 