Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Investment and Securities Tribunal has called for the development of the capacities of litigants and counsel to effectively address capital market technicalities. It said this had become vital as the lack of knowledge had made capital market litigants lose many cases. The Acting Chairman, IST, Jude Udunni, however, told journalists in Abuja that his agency had been trying to develop the capacity of its workforce in order to address this lapse in the industry. He said, “Capacity of litigants and counsel need to be developed because of the technicalities of the capital market. The lack of knowledge has led to litigants losing cases. “Solicitors and litigants have to up their games so that cases are won on merit not technicalities.” On what the IST was doing about the issue, Udunni said, “The tribunal has tried to build the capacity of its users (litigants and counsel) as well as staff of the tribunal.” According to him, the agency had organised three sensitisation programmes since 2017, despite not being the duty of the tribunal to build capacity of litigants and counsel. The IST boss further noted that the tribunal was in a fix on how to proceed with cases that were delayed as a result of the lockdown occasioned by outbreak of COVID-19. He explained that under the agency’s enabling law, it was mandated to conduct its proceedings in a way that would avoid undue delays. Based on this, Udunni said the tribunal must dispose of any matter before it within three months from the date of the commencement of the hearing of the substantive action. He noted that the lockdown left the tribunal with a backlog of cases to adjudicate, as well as how to continue and conclude cases already begun, given the lapse in timeline. He however expressed hope that the concern would be addressed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 