Deji Lambo A police officer, Inspector Monday Gabriel, on Sunday shot dead a sergeant, Felix Okago, in the Ikoyi area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that both policemen were on special duty in a Federal Government facility in Ikoyi when Gabriel reportedly went berserk and started firing indiscriminately and one of the bullets hit Okago. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement that Okago died from the injuries he sustained during the attack, adding that men of the Bariga Police Division arrested Gabriel in the Akoka area, while he was attempting to escape. He stated that Gabriel, who presented signs of mental depression after being arrested, was taken to hospital for examination, adding that the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, while commiserating with Okago’s family, ordered an investigation into the incident. Elkana said, “On Sunday, May 31, 2020, around 4.30pm, the Area ‘A’ Command received a distress call that one Inspector Monday Gabriel attached to the No. 21 Police Mobile Force Squadron in Abuja, while on special duty in a Federal Government facility in Ikoyi, Lagos, went berserk and started shooting indiscriminately. “One Sergeant Felix Okago, who was on special duty with the inspector, died from the gunshot injuries, while others escaped unhurt. “In an attempt to escape, Gabriel took a patrol van and headed for the Third Mainland Bridge and was shooting as he was escaping. He was intercepted by policemen from the Bariga Division at Akoka, disarmed and handcuffed. The rifle and  the vehicle were recovered. “The corpse of the deceased sergeant was deposited in the mortuary for autopsy, while the inspector has been taken to a police hospital for medical examination as he presented signs of mental depression. “The CP has directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of investigation to take over the investigation. The command deeply condoles with the family of our fallen colleague, who paid the supreme price in the service of his fatherland.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 