Sola Shittu, Benin A Benin High Court in Edo State on Thursday adjourned hearing on a case seeking to restrain Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu from parading himself as an aspirant of All Progressives Congress entitled to participate in the state primary election scheduled for 22nd of this month. In a suit filed by the Deputy Chairman of the APC faction loyal to Governor Godwin Obaseki, Pastor Kenneth Asekomhe; a party chief,  Mr. Benjamin Oghumu, on behalf of himself and the executive committee of the APC in Orhiomwon Local Government Area; and Mr. Matthew Ogbebor on behalf of himself and the executive committee of Ugbogbo Ward 5. The plaintiffs/claimants are seeking an order restraining Ize-Iyamu from parading himself as an aspirant entitled to participate in the APC primary election fixed for June 22, 2020. Joined in the suit are the APC, the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The claimants are also seeking an order of the court restraining the APC from recognising Ize-Iyamu as an aspirant of the party. The plaintiffs, who were represented by Kenneth Mozia, SAN, and Santos Owootori, sought to know whether Article 31(2) of APC constitution was not in conflict with Section 177(c) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as it relates to the qualification for election to the office of a governor of a state. However, an argument ensued when defendants’ lawyers, led by Henry Ogbodu, SAN, and Victor Oyosuma, appeared in the matter and demanded to be served the motion papers and origination summons. Consequently, the presiding judge, Justice H. Ahaomoje, declined to grant the exparte motion but gave the defendants 10 days to file their response while counsels for the plaintiffs/claimants were given two days to reply. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 