Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt A man in his early 20s, on Friday, escaped death by a whisker after being electrocuted by over 250 volts of electricity while attempting to steal a transformer’s armoured cable. It was gathered that the victim, identified simply as Upeghom, from the Ogbema community in the Abua/Odual Local Government Area of Rivers State, had attempted to steal the armoured cable attached to a transformer in the Emabu community, Emughan area of the local government area, when he was electrocuted. It was learnt that the incident happened around 12am on Friday after a cut in power supply, but luck ran out on the suspect when power was suddenly restored as he began vandalising the cable. PUNCH Metro gathered that as soon as power was restored, an explosion occurred, which attracted residents, who discovered the unconscious suspect and rushed him to the Abua General Hospital. An eyewitness told our correspondent that after the suspect was taken to the hospital for treatment, the police were informed of the development. The eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity said, “The guy is an indigene of the Ogbema community; his father is from Ogbema, while his mother is from the Oghora community in the Abua Odual LGA, and his name is Upeghom. “He attempted to steal an armoured cable in the Emabu community around midnight and while he was trying to cut the cable, power was restored and the transformer exploded, knocking him unconscious. “It was the explosion that attracted the attention of the residents and when they went out to inspect the scene, they immediately raised the alarm and the suspect was rushed to the Abua General Hospital before they reported the incident to the police.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Nnamdi Omoni, could not immediately confirm the incident, but promised to get back to our correspondent with the details. He, had, however, yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com