Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State police command have arrested a couple after the wife, Tomisin Onyeokweni, allegedly stripped her husband’s ex-lover naked in the presence of her husband, Osas Onyeokweni. The couple reportedly lured the 20-year-old victim into an uncompleted building before the wife who was armed with scissors tore the victim’s dress and left her naked. The Police Public Relations Officer in the State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Oyeyemi said the wife also allegedly inserted an empty bottle into the victim’s private parts with the help of her husband. READ ALSO: NPFL: Clubs vote to end season over COVID-19 Oyeyemi said the victim incurred the wrath of the woman for being an ex-lover to her husband before they got married. The Police spokesperson noted that the couple was arrested after the victim reported at the Agbara police divisional headquarters that Osas called her on the phone to meet him somewhere around Lusada area for an important discussion. He added that the couple also snapped the victim’s naked body and threatened to upload it on the internet if she dared to report the incident to anybody. Oyeyemi, however, said the suspects admitted to committing the crime but said that they regretted their actions. He said, “The couple was arrested following a complaint by the victim who reported at Agbara divisional headquarters that her former boyfriend Osas Onyeokweni who is now married to her friend Tomisin Onyeokweni called her on phone to meet him somewhere around Lusada area for an important discussion. “She further stated that on getting to the agreed place, she met Osas and his wife and they both lured her into an uncompleted apartment where Osas’ wife who was armed with scissors used the scissors to tear her dress and stripped her naked. “After she has been stripped naked, Osas held her down while his wife inserted an empty bottle of alomo bitters into her private part. “They also snapped her naked picture and threatened to upload it on the internet if she dares report to anyone.” The PPRO further said the couple was arrested after the Divisional Police Officer at Agbara, SP Dahiru Saleh, dispatched his detectives to go after the couple. Oyeyemi said, “On interrogation, the couple admitted to committing the crime but pleaded that they regretted their action.” The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has directed that the suspects be charged to court as soon as investigation is concluded. 