Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The Oyo State Police Command says the murder of Azeezat Somuyiwa, 29, in the Akinyele Moniya Local Government Area of Oyo State, is similar to ritual killing. The Police said investigations were ongoing to unravel the circumstances surrounding Somuyiwa’s death and that of 18-year-old Barakat Bello who was raped and killed in the same LGA. In a bid to unearth facts behind the murder of the duo, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Nwachukwu Enwonwu, relocated his office to the area. Also relocated to the area were the deputy commissioners of Police, Operations; and the Criminal Investigation Department in the Command. The Police Public Relations Officer, Oyo State Command, Olugbenga Fadeyi, announced the relocation in a statement dated June 6, made available to journalists in Ibadan, titled, ‘Update on the rising cases of murder similar to that of ritual killings.’ [READ ALSO] Rape epidemic: Four masked men gang-rape 12-year-old girl in Lagos Bello, a Science Laboratory Technology student of Federal College of Animal Health and Production, Ibadan, was raped and killed on Monday, while Somuyiwa, who was said to be seven months pregnant, was killed on Friday. The statement by the police read in part, “The police are aware of the dastardly killing of one Baraka Bello (female), 18-year-old of Oloro Area, Kara, Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State on 31st May, and one Azezat Somuyiwa (female) aged 29 years of Ijefun Community, Akinyele Moniya Local Government Area, on 5th June. “The Commissioner of Police wishes to use this medium to put the records straight that Azezat Somuyiwa of Ijefun Community, Moniya, that was killed in the early hours of 5th June, by some assailants was smashed with stone on her head. “The deceased is not a post-graduate student of the University of Ibadan as widely circulated on social media. Her murder seems similar to that of a ritual killing.’’ It assured members of the public of the command’s resolve to get to the root of the matter.