John Alechenu, Abuja An Ondo State All Progressives Congress governorship aspirant, Ifeoluwa Oyedele, has said injustice is responsible for the inability of the APC Unity Group to pick an acceptable candidate to contest the party primary against Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Oyedele, who is an Executive Director, Niger Delta Power Holding Company, said this at a media briefing in Abuja, on Wednesday. He spoke to reporters shortly after obtaining his expression of interest and nomination forms at the APC national secretariat, Abuja. Oyedele said, “I was a member of and I’m still a member of the Unity Group; I was a very active member. Unfortunately, it’s very unfortunate when you refuse to pursue truth and justice. Any decision you take cannot stand and that is the reason why you find all of the members of the party going their own way in the screening.” On his plans should he get the opportunity to govern the state, the aspirant said he would “return the state to its glorious past as Nigeria’s foremost cocoa producing state.” According to him, agriculture will enjoy its pride of place with an enhanced value chain that will give the farmer better value for his efforts. This, he said, would be achieved with his administration’s planned distribution of high yielding seeds, especially cash crops, and the setting up of leasing companies to assist farmers to lease tractors for agricultural production. He also promised to rehabilitate roads across the state and ensure that no part of the state was marginalised the way the current administration was doing. In another development, the Olaide Adelami Campaign Organisation has raised the alarm over a plot by unnamed persons to discredit the aspirant. The campaign team in a statement by Segun Ogodo, in Abuja, on Wednesday, urged the party leadership, the Presidency and the general public to disregard what it described as “campaign of calumny” against their principal. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 