Samson Folarin There was celebration at the Federal Medical Centre, Ebute Meta, Yaba, Lagos, after a woman, Mrs Maureen Anyaegbu, was delivered of four babies at the public hospital. The babies – three girls and one boy – were reportedly delivered on August 6 by a team of 20 medical personnel in a surgery that lasted six hours. PUNCH Metro learnt that Maureen and her husband, Nonso, had been married for over five years and became worried when the 41-year-old did not conceive. They were said to have gone to different prayer mountains and sought medical help. Nonso told our correspondent that throughout their waiting, he ensured no one pressurised his wife or blamed her for their lack of children. The 43-year-old explained that when his wife became pregnant, they hoped for only one child, but were surprised when the scan result showed triplets. The quantity surveyor said he was excited when the doctors announced his wife had been delivered of quadruplets. “When my wife took in, we went for a scan, which showed it was not one. In the latter days of the pregnancy, even up till two days to delivery, the scan stated it was three. “But on the day she was in labour, the matron came out and said, ‘Congratulations, we brought out four babies.’ It was a miracle. We have been praying to God for one or two, but he chose to shock us with four,” he said. Nonso urged couples waiting for their own babies to be patient and not neglect medical help. According to him, the longer the wait, the bigger the surprise. “There is no time that is too late for God to act on your circumstance. But at the same time, go for tests and seek medical advice. Childlessness is not always about impotence or infertility; it could be that some things are not working well in your body. When your faith meets science, something good happens,” he added. While noting that his wife conceived naturally, he said the family would appreciate support from well-meaning Nigerians. The new mother, Maureen, said her family closed the chapter of child-bearing in “one shoot.” The public servant commended her husband’s support during the period. “If you are waiting for anything in life, don’t allow anyone put you under any pressure. Sometimes, you may be touching other people’s kids, just like any other person, but some people would read meanings to it. But don’t ever be moved,” she added. Dr Job Adebayo of the Obstetrician and Gynaecologist Department, FMC, Ebute Meta, said the patient was monitored until she went into labour. He noted that a caesarean section was planned for her delivery due to the number of babies. “After I brought out the third baby, I wanted to remove the placenta when I found something kicking my hand. Lo and behold, it was the fourth baby in the amniotic sac. The last child was the heaviest of them all. The other babies were 1.5kg, 1.56kg, 1.6kg, but the last child weighed 1.9kg; they are all doing fine,” he added. The Managing Director of the FMC, Dr Adedamola Dada, said the hospital had delivered twins and triplets in the past, adding that it was the first time it would deliver a set of quadruplets. He said in a few days’ time, both mother and children would be discharged. Dada noted that Maureen was still being observed to ensure that she fully recuperated. “We need to continue enhancing the infrastructure of our hospitals — the equipment and the personnel. This will make it easy for Nigerians to access top quality care in the country and reduce the amount of money spent on medical tourism abroad,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com