Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Government, on Tuesday, arraigned the driver, Sodiq Okanlawon, and owner of a truck, Wasiu Lekan, whose container crushed three persons to death before the state High Court in Igbosere. PUNCH Metro had reported that Chidinma Ajoku, and her colleague, Chima Nnaekpe, 29, who both worked in the Commercial Department of the Hajj & Cargo Terminal, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, died on July 26, 2020, when a truck with number plate SGM 715 XA, loaded with a 20-foot container, fell on the commercial bus they were travelling in. It was gathered that Chidinma and Chima were returning from work and the bus stopped briefly at the Ilasamaja bus stop for some passengers to disembark when the tragedy occurred. The remains of the deceased were moved to a morgue in the Yaba area of the state. Chidinma’s mother, Mrs Ajoku, in a very touching video that went viral, decried the activities of container-laden trucks in the state and called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to check their operations and put in place necessary regulations to secure the lives of road users. The state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo, SAN, during a visit to the families of the deceased, assured them of justice. The state government, on Tuesday, arraigned the suspects on three counts bordering on manslaughter before Justice Mobolanle Okikiolu-Igihile. They pleaded not guilty to the charges. Onigbanjo told the court that the truck of the defendants ran over the victims and unlawfully killed Chidinma, Chima and one Daniel Okwuoge. He said the offences were contrary to Section 224 and punishable under Section 229 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State. Following the plea of the defendants, the AG urged the court to remand them in police custody pending when they would be tested for COVID-19 preparatory to their remand in a correctional facility. Onigbanjo asked for a short adjournment before the commencement of trial, but the defendants’ counsel, Emmanuel Okedi, who held the brief for M. A. Osagbede, objected to the short adjournment, adding that he needed to study the information as he was just served a few minutes before the arraignment. Justice Okikiolu-Ighile, however, adjourned the matter till August 20 and 26, 2020, for trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  