Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A mob at the Alanu area of Owode-Yewa in the Yewa-South Local Government Area of Ogun State has caught and handed over two suspected thieves for sedating a motorcyclist and attempting to snatch his motorcycle. The suspects were said to be members of a robbery gang that specialised in sedating their victims before dispossessing them of their belongings. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said the suspects, Chidi Umeh, 40, and Obinna Onyebuchi, 28, committed the crime on Monday. According to the PPRO, the suspects were arrested following a distress call received from the residents of Alanu area of OwodeYewa by the Divisional Police Officer, OwodeEgbado Division, that the two men sedated a motorcyclist and were about taking his motorcycle away. “On receiving the distress call, the DPO, OwodeEgbado Division, SP Olabisi Elebute, quickly led the anti-robbery team to the scene, where the two suspects were apprehended with the help of members of the public,” he stated. Oyeyemi added that Umeh said during the interrogation that he came from Nnewi in Anambra State to commit the crime. The PPRO said Umeh explained that he was dealing in motorcycle parts in Nnewi and used to come to Owode area to snatch motorcycles from their owners after sedating them with energy drink, which he used to give the victims on a friendly note. Oyeyemi added, “His accomplice, Obinna Onyebuchi, corroborated his confession, but he claimed that this was the first time he followed Umeh on a robbery assignment. “Up till the time of writing this report, their latest victim is still sleeping in hospital as a result of the effect of the drug on him. “They confessed to have snatched up to four motorcycles from their owners at different times.” The PPRO added that the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. “The CP warned motorcyclists to stop taking any edible from their passengers, who are total strangers to them, in order to forestall the occurrence of such a heinous crime,” Oyeyemi added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 