Nike Popoola Cornerstone Insurance Plc has said its gross written premium rose to N11.05bn as of the end of 2019 financial year. The Chairman of the company, Segun Adebanji, disclosed this in the 2019 financial report of the company, during its 28th and first virtual annual general meeting in Lagos. “The gross premium written of Cornerstone Insurance Plc and its subsidiaries for the year under review was N11.05bn, representing an increase of 13 per cent over the previous year,” he said. He said the premiums from life insurance accounted for 32.5 per cent of gross premium written, an increase from 25 per cent in the previous year. The largest contributions to general business gross premium written were bond, engineering and accident, which were N2.12bn; oil and gas accounted for N2.04bn, and motor accounted for N1.36bn. “Our continued growth in special risk lines, especially in the power, aviation and oil and gas sectors, is a testament to the confidence our customers and partners have in our technical underwriting expertise, which we continue to strengthen,” he said. The chairman said the net claims ratio for the year stood at 47 per cent and had been relatively stable since the company put in place stricter risk acceptance parameters, as competitive pressures have driven premium rates to uneconomic levels. Consequently, he said the company ended the year with a profit before tax of N4.01bn, and an increase of 22 per cent over the previous year. During the year, the company received an approval in principle from the National Insurance Commission to start a composite Takaful insurance, according to Adebanji. He noted that Cornerstone Takaful Insurance Company Limited would be a subsidiary focused on selling both family and general Takaful products in Nigeria. The chairman said the board of directors recommended the transfer of N1.71bn to be transferred from the company’s share premium account to the share capital account by issuing bonus shares in the proportion of seven new shares of 50 kobo each for every 30 existing shares of 50 kobo each to achieve the company’s recapitalisation plan. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 