Nike Popoola The Lagos State Government has said it paid 218 retirees N1.01bn for the month of August at its recent 78th batch retirement bond presentation ceremony. Lagos State Pension Commission disclosed this in a statement entitled ‘LASPEC presents bond certificates to retirees in batches’ on Friday. LASPEC said in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, it changed its mode of distributing bond certificates to state pensioners. It stated that the retirees would be attended to in batches, in compliance with the social distancing rules of the state government. The new process adopted by the commission nullified the initial arrangements where the presentation of bond certificates was handled by the Pension Fund Administrators of concerned retirees or beneficiaries, it stated. The Director-General, LASPEC, Mr Babalola Obilana, said the commission initiated the new process to ensure that senior citizens were not exposed to the coronavirus and to comply with the state government’s directive on the restriction on large gatherings. He said, “The commission changed from its initial method of releasing bond certificates to Pension Fund Administrators who had been inviting beneficiaries to exit meetings to access their lump sum and monthly pensions.” He affirmed that LASPEC would continue to be resolute in forging ahead with the contributory pension scheme, adding that the scheme was sustainable and had resolved the challenges of the past pension scheme administration, which relied totally on budgetary allocations of government. Obilana stated that the state government, through LASPEC, was committed to ensuring that retirees were paid their terminal entitlements as and when due without any hiccups. He said, “We remain committed to our ideals of making Lagos State a role model for others to follow on pension matters. “In Lagos State, our employees are our greatest assets, and this is why we are not only passionate about providing good conditions of service, but also fully committed to ensuring that their entitlements are paid when they exit the public service.” Obilana advised the retirees to be mindful of fraudsters who come with the idea of unknown business, urging them to be careful with the disclosure of information about their bond benefit entitlement in order not to fall into the hands of people with ulterior intentions. He appreciated the Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for his relentless efforts towards the plight of retirees in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  