Dele Ogunyemi, Warri A 67-year-old man suffering from stroke has been killed by suspected ritualists, who reportedly sneaked into his apartment in the Orhoakpor community, Ethiope-East Local Government Area of Delta State. It was gathered that the deceased, simply identified as Papa, was killed in the compound of a traditional medicine expert, to whom he was rushed for treatment. According to sources, the victim’s throat was slit and he was inflicted with machete cuts on his chest. Our correspondent gathered that prior to the incident, the deceased had been receiving treatment for the stroke in the apartment of the traditional healer. It was further gathered that relatives of the deceased had just rented a private apartment for him in the same compound with the doctor to ensure more convenience and easy access. However, not quite long after the private apartment was rented for Papa, suspected ritualists sneaked in and slit his throat. The incident attracted residents of the community to the compound, who promptly reported the matter to the Orhoakpor Community Vigilante group, which in turn reported it at the Isiokolo Police Divisional Headquarters. The police visited the community and conducted investigation before the corpse was evacuated and deposited in the morgue. Nobody has been arrested in connection with the man’s killing as of the time of filing this report. Reacting to the incident, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Hafiz Inuwa, confirmed it in a telephone chat with journalists in Warri on Sunday. “There was an incident like that. The man was taken to a traditional healer for stroke treatment. The family rented a place for him. It was at the traditional healer’s place that it was discovered that the man was killed. So, there is suspicion that it is a ritual killing. The case is under investigation,” the CP stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 