The September 19 governorship election in Edo State is still a few weeks away, but the electioneering is heating up gradually, with the major political parties trying to outdo one another in a bid to sway voters. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission, 14 political parties would participate in the election, but many people believe that the contest is largely between Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress. The PDP and the APC are the strongest political parties in the state. Interestingly, the two candidates contested the state governorship election in 2016, but under different platforms. This time round, they have simply swapped parties under similar circumstances. Obaseki contested the 2016 governorship election under the APC platform while Ize-Iyamu was the candidate of the PDP. However, what is of interest now is how the two parties have almost left the real issues behind to focus on attacking each other, making a mockery of the true essence of election campaign, which is to tell the electorate their agenda if voted into office. Notably, this was what played out in the state four years ago when the candidates, their godfathers and loyalists went all out to discredit and even defame candidates of the opposition to sway voters, instead of making measurable promises to the people they intended to govern. Now that the two major candidates have swapped political parties and the candidates they once discredited are now in their camps, the godfathers and gladiators are gradually eating their words by coming up with all kinds of excuses for what they said four years ago. Interestingly, they are now constrained to attack the candidates they once praised and promote whom they once defamed. Perhaps, this is the price they would pay for their vituperations. This therefore underscores the need for electioneering to focus on real issues of governance. Meanwhile, such examples abound in the two political parties, but some of them are cited below: Adams Oshiomhole A former governor of the state and immediate past National Chairman of APC, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, is a classic example in this regard. He did not only lead the campaign for the election of Obaseki in 2016, he also said all he could to impugn or damage the reputation of Ize-Iyamu, who was the candidate of the PDP then. In 2016, apart from accusing Ize-Iyamu of dousing a schoolmate at the University of Benin with acid and not going to the law school, Oshiomhole also said, “Do you know why he wants to be a governor; Mr Ize-Iyamu wants to be a governor to get immunity to protect him from prosecution…Even their leader wrote in his handwriting that he collected N300m from NSA. Do you want to hand over Edo treasury to a thief?” He said Ize-Iyamu was unlike Obaseki who went to school. Such accusation coming from the then incumbent governor of the state, no doubt, could have influenced the choice of some voters. But now that Ize-Iyamu is the candidate of the APC and Oshiomhole is now faced with the task of campaigning for him, he’s constrained to eat his words. When speaking on a Channels TV programme on Sunday, Oshiomhole said, “About Ize-Iyamu not being a lawyer; that was what I said; now I know for a fact, because thereafter, people who were his schoolmates in the law school have come out to say he was their classmate at the Nigerian law school.” He added, “Don’t forget that these statements were not made on affidavit, they were based on what I was told.” In another video, he justified his attacks on Ize-Iyamu, saying, “When you are selling Toyota, you cannot promote Mercedes (Benz). If you tell the people Mercedes (Benz) is better, they will not look at Toyota.” Now, Oshiomhole has shifted his attacks to Obaseki, who headed the state economic team during his (Oshiomhole’s) administration, saying Obaseki could not have gained admission into the University of Ibadan with his O’ level result, even though UI had in a statement affirmed that Obaseki graduated from the institution. Ize-Izamu recently told Sunday PUNCH that the negative things Oshiomhole said about him ahead of the 2016 governorship election were not from his heart. “He made those statements during the period I was on the other side and was contesting to be the state governor and he (Oshiomhole) was determined to prevent that. What do you expect? Were you expecting him to praise me at that time when he did not want me to be governor? “So, when you look at the context in which he said those things, you will understand that he was just playing politics and he needed to de-market me so that his candidate would have an advantage,” he said. Dan Orbih PDP National Vice Chairman, South-South and former chairman of the party in Edo State, Chief Dan Orbih, is also faced with the task of campaigning for Governor Obaseki, whom he once attacked. In December 2018, Orbih said of Obaseki, “The economy is bad but he’s saying he wants to take us to another level, and we are saying no. We don’t want to go to another level of poverty.” A government in Edo State that invited the President (Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to inaugurate the central hospital, today, they are voting N200m in the 2019 budget for equipping that hospital. What did they inaugurate; was it an empty hall? Let Obaseki account for the N12bn he has taken in the past two years as security vote.” Apart from describing the launch of the Edo State Security Architecture as a scam, he said the governor’s refusal to disclose his alleged membership of a secret society had disqualified him from the contest. But now that Obaseki is the PDP candidate for the next election, Orbih said at a campaign rally in Akoko Edo Local Government Area of the state on Monday that, “We thank God for giving us Obaseki as our governor, he has shown good character and courage and deserves to be reelected.” What is happening in Edo State is not the first time politicians would eat their words after switching sides; such attitude seems to have become a part of electioneering in Nigeria. Thus, it has somewhat become a norm for politicians to pounce on hearsay and use it to rain accusations on their opponents to disparage them. What is more worrisome now is the neglect of developmental issues, which is supposed to be the crux of the electioneering. And even when such promises are made, there is no thorough breakdown in a way that it could be measurable. It has therefore been observed that the accusations traded at campaign rallies dominate public discourse until the elections are over, leaving little or nothing for the people to hold candidates accountable to. Chairman, Partners for Electoral Reform and Convener, Say No Campaign Nigeria, Mr Ezenwa Nwagwu, believes the blame is on the electorate who allow politicians digress from non-issues and sustain the focus on less important things. He said professional associations and the media need to reorder conversations at campaign, given that the larger society bears the brunt of misgovernance that could arise from a misdirected campaign. “Politicians will not suddenly become pastors or imams; they would be what they are, especially in this environment,” he said. “If anybody places trust in what comes from politicians, then it means we have not come to the terms with the fact the evidence of continued underdevelopment and lack of good governance have not been there because we have not been hearing things from politicians. “For me, I have been arguing that in Edo State, there is Nigeria Union of Journalists, there is Nigerian Medical Association and other professional groups; what is their role in the period that leads to these elections? Their roles should be to have what I call a Citizens’ Charter of Demands. “What’s the problem if you get the people who are contesting elections and reorder the agenda in terms of leading the conversation? Tell them the things that are of interest to you and ask them to tick the ones they would do. When one of them emerges, you can then begin to talk about holding that person accountable. “What has happened is that we allow the politicians to dictate what the tenor or pulse of every conversation should be, so what they do is to deliberately digress from the issue. It’s deliberate, because in reality, it’s one political family in Edo State; no opposition. What you have is a gang war. There is a split in the gang and one is not morally superior to the other in any material particular.” He also charged the traditional institution to show more interest by interrogating the candidates on what specific things they would do for the people, stressing that if people refuse to wake up to their responsibility, they might not have anything with which to hold the candidates by the end of the campaign. He added, “So, if a politician decides to confuse or distract you, the joke is on you if you allow that to happen. If you go into the tirade of what Oshiomhole said or what he didn’t say, that is part of what politicians do. There is nothing about their plan to build 1,000 houses or build three to four hospitals in the next four years. Those are not the conversations. We need to stay on the issue because we are the ones the consequences of governance or misgovernance affect. “The one that said ‘Simple Agenda’ should be brought into a conversation to break down the agenda, and the one that says he wants to return should be asked what he wants to return to do” He said there could be a collective decision by the electorate not to be interested in the distraction. He however noted that this might not happen because people already aligned with their preferred candidate. “So, we are the problem,” he added. “From what Oshiomhole has said so far, he is also implying that it is possible that after the election, he and Obaseki could become friends and that people should not take anything he is telling them now to heart. The campaign councils of the two major parties have also been trading accusations, with less focus on real issues of development. Also speaking, the Executive Director of Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre and convener of Civil Society Situation Room, Mr Clement Nwankwo, admitted that there had been a big concern about the lack of focus on issues, noting that this had fuelled the degeneration into threats of violence. “In the absence of focus on issues, it would appear that the parties are focusing so much on how they could respond to their own perception of threats of violence, and that means citizens are not being told what people seeking political office plan to do. “So, rather than saying what they intend to do and how they intend to address the issues of development, they have been more focused on attacking one another and I don’t think that is the right thing.” When asked the implication for the people if such persists, he said, “What it means for the electoral system is that candidates would come up with rhetoric that does not address the issues or needs of the people and because of the ability to speak to the sentiment of violence and non-issues, they are able to get elected only on that basis, so the measure of what their achievements are or what promises they can be held accountable to is absent.” He said there was a need to refocus the conversation. Meanwhile, the National Chairman, African Democratic Congress, Chief Ralph Nwosu, has said the culture the APC and PDP parties had set was destroying Nigeria’s democracy and he could only pray it wouldn’t destroy the country. He said it could be deduced that they were doing it for the power to control the state resources. He added, “It’s unfortunate that they have reduced the dynamic nature of politics and governance to something trivial. We have also come to see that the two parties are one, they simply swapped parties.” He said this was why the ADC had been trying to build a different culture, which he said the party’s candidate exemplifies. He added, “Even when the other parties claim they would build roads or infrastructure, the Edo people don’t believe them anymore and the culture on the ground is not good and it is a herculean task for parties like ours that are genuinely out to see that our democracy is restored. What you have in Edo now is gutter politics. “We are speaking in a clear language that we need to move from thuggery to values and inclusion. If you put your posters on the streets, supporters of these parties would go and remove. If you brand your vehicles, they would drive you out. We need an end to such bitter politics.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 