It was reported that your supporters were not allowed to vote in the election, why? The problem is that the Association of Resident Doctors of Enugu State University of Technology, Parklane, made a financial commitment to the tune of almost N7m to the Nigerian Medical Association. The chairman wanted to install his friend against the wish of the members because he stepped down for him two years ago, and he didn’t want ESUT-Parklane doctors to vote. It was a gimmick to disenfranchise people from ESUT-Parklane, whom they felt would give me massive support. And even when we pleaded that they should be allowed to vote, it fell on deaf ears. And when the members insisted that they wanted to vote and that they were paying their dues, the chairman, who was not in the electoral committee and should have handed over authority to the electoral committee chairman, carried the ballot box. It was at that point that the doctors from the ESUT-Parklane resisted it and in an attempt to get the ballot box from him, there was chaos and the election was disrupted. Meanwhile, before the crisis, the electoral committee chairman had agreed three times that doctors from ESUT-Parklane would vote and three times, the chairman convinced him that they should not vote and that was what led to the crisis. After a while, he picked the ballot papers from the floor which I tried to resist, but the police assured me that there was nothing that they could do with those papers, and that the election had been disrupted. Little did we know that the chairman had plans to continue with the collation of the results with the few ballot papers they had taken from the floor. He had plans to rig the election, so they moved to a hotel. Unfortunately, they had the backing of the Department of State Services officials because when we got the information and went there, we saw DSS officials coming in two trucks. We went into the hall where they were collating the results, and we saw them filling blank ballot papers which were not used and stuffing them in the ballot box. And immediately the chairman saw us, he left through the window and ran away. He wanted to leave with the ballot box but we were able to stop that. Why were ESUT-Parklane doctors prevented from voting? Well, he claimed that some doctors in ESUT-Parklane owed association dues but not everybody owed and having paid almost N7m, definitely not everybody owed, some people should have been allowed to vote. Rather, he said nobody from ESUT-Parklane would vote and that was not fair. That is unjust and illegal. You said the chairman should have handed over to the chairman of the electoral committee, when was his tenure supposed to have ended? During the Annual General Meeting which he conducted recently, he was supposed to dissolve his executive and allow the congress to elect an electoral officer but he did not do that. Instead, he came to Michael Okpara Square and singlehandedly appointed electoral officers and they conducted the election. What did the NMA constitution say about election and eligibility? There is a constitutional provision that you should not owe the association more than three months in arrears, but the current situation involving ESUT-Parklane is that the NMA dues are deducted from salaries every month. Before doctors are paid, the NMA dues are deducted and sent to NMA account. That is the current situation in ESUT-Parklane. So, what do ESUT-Parklane doctors owe? These are monies that probably accrued before the method of deduction from source started. Meanwhile, the ARD NMA made some payments in that regard and even agreed to pay the money within 12 months. But the point here is with the amount of money the NMA has in its coffers, all they needed to do was to divide the total dues and levies by that amount and it would have given them the number of doctors that would vote, even if not everybody would vote. That would have helped them to determine the number of doctors that would vote. How did you qualify to contest the election since you belong to ESUT-Parklane ARD? I have paid my dues up to date, so they didn’t disqualify me. There was double standard; they claimed they followed the constitution at some point and at some other point when it didn’t favour them, they didn’t follow the constitution. How would you describe what happened on Election Day? I feel very bad about the way our noble association has been embarrassed by all that happened and those things were preventable. My view is that an election should be conducted by bringing in leaders who will lead our noble association and ensure peace and unity, carry everybody along and ensure that there is no division amongst us. That is my prayer. Meanwhile, the chairman should leave himself out of the electoral process since his tenure is over. What we want is a free and fair election that is devoid of any manipulation. That is all I am asking for. What we hear is that your supporters disrupted the election process when they realised you were losing? There is no such thing. The truth is that I enjoy popularity among doctors even in the UNTH. Without Parklane voting, I am sure I would have won that election but, I don’t think it would have been just to say that no doctor from Parklane would vote, even after they had paid dues and levies to the tune of almost N7m; that would not be right. I would have won the election; I am so confident of winning it. Why did they leave the election venue with the ballot box for another venue? They invited only those that they wanted to declare. I thought if they wanted to go on with the collation of results, they would have invited all the candidates, along with their agents. Are you calling for a fresh election? Well, I guess the national body will have to intervene. Maybe, they will set up a caretaker committee to conduct the election because I do not have confidence in this current electoral committee chairman. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 