Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt An ally of the Minister of Transportation and former Leader of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Dr Chidi Lloyd, has dumped the All Progressives Congress for the Peoples’ Democratic Party. Lloyd, the Director General of the 2019 Governorship Campaign Council of the APC in Rivers state, was formally received at the Government House, Port Harcourt, by Governor Nyesom Wike and some PDP leaders in the state on Monday. The former House leader apologised for the fisticuff that took place at the State House of Assembly in 2013, just as he promised to join the governor to succeed in the party, adding that he had leant how to be benevolent in politics. Lloyd said, “My people have asked me to say to you that we will henceforth join hands with you in the Peoples’ Democratic Party. Your Excellency, I thank God today that all the dramatis personae that were involved in that shameful conduct are alive. None was buried. “Your Excellency, I tender an unreserved apology for whatever actions that may have been ascribed to me. I am truly sorry for the pain which I may have caused my brother Michael Okechukwu Chinda.” Responding to Lloyd defection, Wike described Lloyd as his friend, noting that his declaration that the doors of the PDP are open for members of the APC in the state, was not a fluke. Meanwhile, Wke has said politics hampers development, saying any politicians who bear bitterness in their minds against others hardly make progress. Wike was speaking when the people of Akpabu and Itu communities, led by their traditional and political leaders, paid him a courtesy visit at Government House, Port Harcourt, adding that his success in politics and governance was because he carries no grudge against anyone. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 