Peter David, Benin City The Deputy Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly and representative of Akoko-Edo Constituency I, Mr Yekini Idiaye, and two other members, on Monday, pledged their support for the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Idiaye was joined by Emmanuel Agbaje (Akoko-Edo Constituency II) and Nosayaba Okunbor (Orhionmwon-East Constituency), who earlier pledged allegiance to Ize-Iyamu. This brings the number of elected members of the Assembly, who have declared their support for the APC candidate, to 17. While Idiaye and the two others are among those inaugurated in the 8th Assembly in 2019, the other 14 are members-elect that have not been inaugurated. They announced their decision during a solidarity visit to the private residence of Ize-Iyamu in Benin City on Monday. They assured Ize-Iyamu of their complete loyalty and commencement of mobilisation of voters at the grass-roots to ensure his victory at the poll. Idiaye said, “There is no reason for me to defect to another party, because there is no single project in my village to show under this present administration. I am from Somorika in the Akoko-Edo Local Government Area and my village is the most backward in Akoko-Edo. “There are clear reasons why we are standing for our party, because what would have been our problem in making progress has left us. I want to assure Edo people that with the emergence of Ize-Iyamu, Edo will move forward.” In his remarks, Ize-Iyamu expressed gratitude to the lawmakers for their courage and integrity, while also criticising the governor for dividing the state by denying representation to 14 elected lawmakers for over a year. According to Ize-Iyamu, the fact that 17 of the 24 members of the Assembly have rejected Obaseki shows that the partial Assembly he forcefully put together, against the resolution of the National Assembly, has now fallen apart. He assured the lawmakers that their constituencies would receive the attention they deserve in terms of development if he wins the September 10 election. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 