Uganda’s ruling party, the National Resistance Movement, has picked its national chairman and incumbent President, Yoweri Museveni, as its candidate for the 2021 presidential election. Seventy-five-year-old Museveni is in his 34th year as president, having been in office since 1986. Museveni had tweeted his acceptance of the party’s fresh ticket, while also appreciating the delegates: In his speech at the party’s delegates’ conference on Monday prior to voting, Mr. Museveni announced that he had sent to his party’s NEC and the National Conference the names of persons to hold the positions of chairman, first vice-chairman, second national vice-chairperson, regional vice-chairmen and also the person to be the presidential flag-bearer for the NRM. The names were based on the recommendations of the Central Executive Committee, Museveni said. “You need to decide on all those recommendations,” he told the delegates. He urged the party to expunge career politicians in its midst and advised delegate to reinstate mission-led leadership. “The NRM needs to expunge the politics of careerism and re-instate the politics of mission-led leadership. “It is not just the ‘who.’ It is, first and foremost, the ‘what.’ What is to be done for Uganda’s salvation, for Africa’s salvation? “Once you remind yourself that the ‘what’ in the case of NRM means the four ideological principles: Patriotism, PanAfricanism, social-economic transformation and democracy, then, it is easier for you to decide on the ‘who.’ Who is it that seems to understand and adhere to the three principles?” Museveni counselled. Continuing, he advised, “Do not intimidate, do not assault, do not insult, do not bribe, but persuade by explaining and exhibiting good conduct. “Let your light so shine before men, that they see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven,” it says in the Book of Mathew, chapter 5, verse 15-16. “Influence by explanation and good examples and not by intimidation, assaulting, insulting, manipulating or bribing.” Meanwhile, stating its satisfaction with the conduct of its primaries, the ruling party had tweeted: 