Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission says it is investigating the Chief Medical Director of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Prof. Chris Bode. The spokesperson for the ICPC, Mrs. Azuka Ogugua, confirmed the investigation but said she could not provide details. The agency told our Correspondent that the CMD is under investigation over alleged budget splitting, reckless spending and diversion of funds in the hospital. It was also gathered that he is being investigated for alleged breach of public procurement acts, and awarding public-private projects of the hospital without following due process. “The ICPC letter was received by the hospital’s lawyer and the CMD has been reporting to the ICPC’s office for the past three months. “His bank accounts have been frozen, while the anti-graft agency investigates the allegations against him. “He has also been suspended from approving LUTH Treasury Savings Account,” a source said. In responding to the issue, ICPC spokesperson, Mrs. Azuka Ogugua, confirmed the investigation but said she could not provide details. “The Office of the LUTH CMD is under investigation, but I cannot give you all the details at the moment. “The investigation is ongoing and we cannot give further details,” Ogugua said. When contacted, the Director, LUTH Legal Services, Mr. Sesan Olajide, said, “I won’t be able to comment on that on phone. You can get across to the management formally. “I am not the Public Relations Officer in the hospital; if you do a letter to the CMD about your inquiry, then it can be referred to the appropriate office. “If it is referred to me, I will deal with it,” Olajide said. Also speaking in a telephone conversation with our correspondent, Chairman, LUTH Management Board, Isa Bello Salli, said he was not aware of the investigation. “I am sorry; I have not heard of that allegation, so I’m not going to answer it; nobody has told me about it,” Salli said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 