Dayo Ojerinde The World Health Organisation has said it is working to ensure that COVID-19 vaccine is available and accessible to all countries once a proven vaccine is available. The WHO’s Director-General, Tedros Ghebreyesus, said this during a live virtual session of the 70th WHO Regional Committee for Africa. He said the organisation had been working round the clock since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, noting that African countries now have a preparedness and response plan in place. “Our continent is facing a health crisis unlike any we have faced before. Yesterday, we crossed 1 million reported cases in the region, with more than 20,000 deaths. The number of cases has doubled just in the past 6 weeks.” “Everyone has a role to play from cleaning hands to maintaining physical distance, staying at home and wearing of masks where physical distancing is not possible,” Ghebreyesus said. The WHO DG called on countries to put measures in place for surveillance, testing and contact tracing while focusing on the most vulnerable groups. He added that countries have experienced significant outbreaks linked to events with a large number of people including stadiums, night clubs, churches, adding that precautions must be taken at these places to minimise transmission. Speaking further, the WHO boss said COVID-19 was not the only emergency to which the organisation is responding to. “More than 100 people have now been infected and 43 people have died in a new outbreak of Ebola in the Equateur province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. “Today we are also celebrating another public health triumph: the eradication of wild poliovirus in Africa. This is an incredible achievement, & a much-needed cause for celebration,” he said. The WHO’s Regional Director for Africa, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti said countries in the Region have significant experience in dealing with numerous and sometimes widespread epidemics “COVID-19 has proven once again, the importance of investing in health systems, enhancing equitable access to care, improving readiness to prevent and control outbreaks,” Moeti said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 