Sunday Aborisade, Abuja Repentant militants in various Niger Delta universities have appealed to the new Coordinator of the Amnesty Office,  Col. Milland Dixion Dikio, to pay their 30 months allowances which his predecessors allegedly failed to pay. The students stated this in a statement on Sunday titled, “Coalition of the unpaid Amnesty students, congratulates new Amnesty boss,” and signed by its National Coordinator, Sunday Menukuro. The group described the appointment of Dikio, as a welcome development, based on his track records and experience. The statement read in part, “We would like to briefly inform you sir, that we are the set of students who were admitted to various Universities in February 2018. “We were offered admission after the Amnesty office invited us for interviews and aptitude tests in Asaba, Port Harcourt and Yenagoa respectively. “Those of us who passed the interview were a little over 1000, and we were admitted to various universities in the Niger Delta Region. “We were duly admitted by the universities after completing admission processes of the affected universities. “Barely a month after our admission, Prof. Charles Dokubo refused to pay our mandatory stipends since then till now; making it a period of 30 months. “May we add that Prof Dokubo was only paying our school fees and hostel accommodation to the university authorities, but refused to pay our upkeep and book allowances throughout his stay in the office. “This denial has not only inflicted injurious hunger on us which could lead to poor academic performance. “The development has also forced many students out of school as a result of the excruciating pains arising from lack and poverty. “It is an irony that the students for whom the Amnesty Programme was conceptualized and who should be the main focus are left to suffer from hunger and lack, while the university authorities are getting their own side of the agreement. “Sir, we humbly appeal that you use your good offices to intervene in our matter urgently as you settle in down in your new office.”