Friday Olokor, Abuja The Lagos State Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency said it has commenced the migration of its activities from manual to electronic android-based mobile application to ensure the efficient inspection and monitoring of health facilities within Lagos State. The organisation, in a statement, said the transition, with support from the PharmAccess Foundation, would improve efficiency in licensure, inspection and quality monitoring. The Country Director of PharmAccess, Njide Ndili, said HealthFIT was an android-based mobile application designed for the inspection and monitoring of health facilities within Lagos State. She reiterated PharmAccess’ commitment to supporting HEFAMAA and the Lagos State Ministry of Health to improve the quality of health care services. Ndili added that the HealthFIT app would allow easy collection, processing, and management of data in a simple interface which is essential for the empanelment of qualified providers onto the Lagos State Health Insurance Scheme. According to her, the central database hosts  analyse collated data, update relevant visualisations in real-time, using a web interface for user access with dashboards highlighting defined indicators, pre-specified analysis and other tools. She said, “Technology as an enabler is critical for transparency, efficiency and effectiveness, especially in the health care system. We recently trained HEFAMMA inspectors and other administrative staff of the agency in the use of HealthFIT in preparation for the two-week field pilot of the application.” Ndili, in the statement, said the Executive Secretary of HEFAMMA, Dr Abiola Idowu, commended the new initiative, saying it would enhance efficient inspection and monitoring of health facilities in Lagos State. “Idowu expressed confidence that when the application is fully operational, health care facility monitors and inspectors in the state will have the benefit of delivering credible and objective reports with faster and seamless operations and will go a long way in enhancing staff productivity,” she said. The Digital Innovations Manager, PharmAccess Foundation, Dr Ademola Serrano, said the digital transformation of HEFAMAA would drive its operational efficiency, save operational costs, enhance transparency, and boost accountability. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  