Friday Olokor, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission has described as untrue claims by two governorship aspirants in Ondo State that their names were substituted with other persons. INEC said contrary to the allegations, it did not substitute the name of any aspirant or candidate but received only one submission from the African Action Congress through its dedicated online portal for candidates’ nomination with no human interface. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, made the clarification in a statement titled: ‘INEC did not substitute nominated candidates of AAC’. He told aspirants, candidates and state branches of political parties with issues or challenges relating to their nominated candidates to resolve such issues with the national chairmen and secretaries of their respective parties. Okoye said, “INEC did not substitute the name of any aspirant or candidate. The commission received only one submission from the AAC through its dedicated online portal for candidate nomination. There was no human interface. The names uploaded on the portal by the political parties were the same names published. “The commission only receives the names of candidates and running mates from the national headquarters of political parties duly signed by both the national chairman and national secretary.” Meanwhile, INEC, on Monday, announced new appointments in its Voter Education and Publicity departments. The new appointees are Nick Dazang as the Director, Voter Education and Publicity, and Andy Ezeani as Director of Publicity. The appointments were made ahead of the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states scheduled for September 19 and October 10, 2020, respectively. Dazang was former Administrative Secretary in both Kaduna and the Federal Capital Territory in Abuja. He takes over from Oluwole Osaze-Uzzi, who is currently on working leave, preparatory to his retirement in October. Ezeani, a former Editor of Daily Champion, returns from Ebonyi State, where he was the Administrative Secretary, to replace Aliyu Bello, who is now the INEC Administrative Secretary in Gombe State. The Chief Press Secretary to INEC Chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, confirmed the new appointments in a message sent to the commission’s press corps WhatsApp group. He said, “Dear colleagues, I am pleased to announce that Nick Dazang has been appointed as the Director, Voter Education and Publicity Department. He takes over from Oluwole Osaze-Uzzi. “Also, Andy Ezeani has been appointed as Director, Publicity. He replaces Aliyu Bello, who is now the Administrative Secretary, Gombe.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 