Adelani Adepegba, Godwin Isenyo Kayode Idowu and James Abraham The Chairman of the northern socio-political organisation, the Arewa Consultative Forum, Chief Audu Ogbeh, has  assessed security challenges in the North and concluded that life has  not been so tough in the region as it is now. The chairman, who stated  this on Wednesday at the ACF meeting  in Kaduna, lamented killings that were occurring in the North. Ogbeh, who was the Minister of Agriculture from 2015 to 2019, was elected  the ACF chairman at  the organisation’s annual general meeting in March. In a communiqué issued at the end of its meeting on Wednesday, the ACF said the federal and state governments must end killings in the North. Since January, there have been increased attacks by herdsmen in Southern Kaduna, bandits in Katsina and Zamfara states as well as Boko Haram insurgents in Borno State. ACF not an ethnic, religious organisation – hairman On Wednesday, the chairman explained that the forum  was not an ethnic, religious or political organisation as being mistaken by some Nigerians. He stated, “It is none of these. We have over 300 tribes in the North.  We cannot afford to be an ethnic organisation. The former minister lamented that the killings in the region could only be equated with Nigeria’s bloody civil war which claimed millions of lives. North faced killings day and night – Ogbeh Ogbeh stated,  “The 78 per cent of Nigerian land mass is in  the North and we are faced with the problems of killings day and night which are greater than ever, except during the civil war. “Our responsibility now is greater than before,” he said, adding, “We have not  faced this challenge before: Killings day and night. At no time has life been so tough, except during the civil war.” Ogbeh warned that it was time to save the region or lose it, saying, “If we do not save the North now, we will lose the North.” READ ALSO: Village head, 10 others killed in Southern Kaduna, SOKAPU alleges In the communiqué after the meeting, the ACF asked the Federal Government to take urgent steps to halt the carnage in the region and across the country. It also cautioned religious, ethnic, political leaders in the region against inflammatory utterances. In a  communiqué, titled, ‘Communiqué of the first meeting of the newly elected national working committee of the ACF,’ signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, the group called on the northern state governments to pay attention to agriculture. It stated, “Northern states should take advantage of the N75bn loan to farmers in the  36 states and the Federal Capital Territory under the Nigerian  Incentive-Based Risk Sharing in Agricultural Lending . Northern  state governments will do well to take advantage of such programmes It advised religious, ethnic,  traditional and political leaders in the North to be cautious in their utterances and should refrain from making wild and inflammatory utterances that will aggravate the situation. The ACF  said federal and state governments “must take urgent steps to arrest the deteriorating security situation in northern Nigeria which has led to insurgency, terrorism,  banditry, ethnic and religious disturbances all over the North.” Lamenting low school enrolment in the North, it stated, “State governors of the North should take urgent steps to enhance school enrolment and eradicate the rampant incidence of street begging which is very unhealthy for the overall development of the North.” Reacting to the ACF’s statement on the increasing killings in the North,  both the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria and the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union  knocked the  body for not doing enough for the region. The  Kaduna State chapter of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria said the ACF was not doing enough in assisting the government to end the killings. Although the Fulani  group acknowledged that  both  federal and state governments, were not doing enough to stop the killings, it said the ACF and other stakeholders  were not complementing the efforts of the governments. ACF not uniting North – Kaduna Miyetti Allah The Director of Media and Publicity of MACBN, Alhaji Ibrahim Bayero-Zango, who spoke to one of our correspondents on the telephone in Kaduna on Wednesday, said the ACF was doing nothing in terms of even uniting the people of the North. “The ACF itself is doing nothing in terms of uniting the north; visiting victims of some the killings. They  are just sitting in the urban centres, talking and complaining. This is not what northerners expect from them,” he said. Bayero-Zango urged both the federal and state governments to put in more efforts to see to the end of the killings in the region. ACF’s failure led to M’Belt Forum formation – SOKAPU The SOKAPU said it had nothing to do with the ACF because the failure of the northern body led to the formation of the Middle Belt Forum. The National Public Relations Officer of SOKAPU, Luka Binniya, told one of our correspondents on the telephone that the ACF had never shown any interest in the wellbeing of the people from the southern part of the state(Kaduna). “We in SOKAPU have a  loose affiliation with them. To start with, it is the failure of the northern forum like the ACF that led to the creation of the Middle Belt Forum, SOKAPU and other similar bodies because the subjugation, exploitation and suppression of the people of Middle Belt has gone seemingly unnoticed by the ACF and their likes. “As far as we are concerned, the ACF means little or nothing to us in Southern Kaduna.” On its part, the Middle Belt Forum described as commendable the call by the ACF for government to end the killings. The National President of the Middle Belt Forum, Dr Bitrus Porgu, said this in an interview with The PUNCH in Jos on Wednesday. Porgu said, “I think the ACF call for an end to the Southern Kaduna killings is a welcome development. That is what we have been saying. If they have realised that what affects the people of Southern also affects them, then the better for all of us. “They should also realise that such thing will also affect the people in other parts of the country like the South- South, South -East and the South-West.” This means that there is the need for collective action to end the killings in Southern Kaduna and other parts of the country to enable Nigeria to move forward. Boko Haram abducts 100 in Borno Meanwhile, Boko Haram insurgents on Tuesday attacked  Kukawa, a town in Borno State,  abducting over 100 persons. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] Killings: 1,300 petitioners seek El-Rufai’s exclusion from NBA confab Sources in the Civilian Joint Task Force, who spoke on condition of anonymity  to our one of correspondent, the insurgents drove in over 20 trucks to the town on the shores of Lake Chad. The sources said the terrorists heralded  their entry into the town with sporadic gunshots, engaging  troops  in the town for over 30 minutes. They said the insurgents went away with over 100 persons as hostages after they were able to suppress and push back the military. One of the sources, said, “At around 4pm on Tuesday, terrorists in about 20 trucks overran the town of Kukawa. They engaged soldiers guarding the people in a ferocious firefight. “After about 30 minutes of engaging the military, they (insurgents) were able to overpower them and went away with over 100 hostages. This latest abduction might have thwarted  the plan of the state government to relocate  internally displaced persons back to their homes. Residents of  Kukawa were recently relocated on August 2. The residents were escorted during the relocation by the military as part of the resettlement plan of the state government. When contacted on Wednesday, the spokesman for the state Governor, Mallam Isa Gusau, said he did not have the details of the attack. A text message sent to the state Commissioner for Information, Babakura Abba-Jatto for confirmation was not replied. On his part, the spokesman for   the Army, Col. Sagir Musa, asked for patience, promising that the military would  soon issue a press statement on the attack. As of 10:35pm, the  statement had yet to be issued. The Police Public Relations Officer, Borno  Police Command, Okon Edet did not picking his call when an attempt was made to get the abduction confirmed by him. Also, a text message sent to him seeking confirmation was not replied as of the time of filing this report. But the military, on Wednesday said the Nigerian Air Force  killed 20 suspected commanders and members of the Islamic State in West Africa Province at Bukar Meram, and Dole, in  Borno State, during an airstrike. The Defence Headquarters said troops of Operation Hail Storm, the air component of Operation Lafiya Dole, carried out the operations on Monday at the fringes of the Lake Chad region where the terrorists including some of their leaders were killed. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Majaor General John Enenche in a statement on Wednesday explained that the airstrike destroyed Bukar Meram, a logistics hub of ISWAP leaders. The statement was titled, ‘Operation Hail Storm: Air Task Force clears ISWAP leaders and logistics facilities at Bukar Meram, neutralises fighters at Dole in Borno State.’ It said, “In continuation of airstrikes being conducted under subsidiary Operation Hail Storm, the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole has successfully neutralised some ISWAP commanders and knocked out logistics facilities at Bukar Meram on the fringes of the Lake Chad in Borno State, while also neutralising several terrorists at Dole, a settlement in the Southern part of Borno State.” It stated that the air interdiction missions were executed on August 17, on the heels of credible intelligence reports indicating a resurgence of terrorists’ activities in the two settlements. Enenche said Bukar Meram, a major ISWAP logistics hub linking other island settlements of the Lake Chad, which also housed several of their fighters and some of their key leaders, was attacked by “an enhanced force package of the Nigerian Air Force fighter jets and helicopter gunships which hit designated targets in the area leading to the destruction of the logistics facilities and neutralization of several of the terrorists and their leaders.” He added, “The attack at Dole was carried out after Surveillance and Reconnaissance missions showed a buildup of activities in the area after the relocation of some terrorists from nearby settlements of Kokiwa and Yale. “Over the area, the ISR aircraft spotted no fewer than 20 terrorists in the area, which were taken out by the NAF attack aircraft.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 