Nike Popoola The Lagos Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Mr Tunji Bello, says the state has put in place preventive measures to minimise the effects of incidence of flash flooding in the state. He said this during a press conference on Friday to enlighten residents in Lagos and prepare them on the impending pattern of rainfall which the state would experience in the months of September and October. The commissioner also urged residents who live in areas that were prone to flood to temporality move to safer areas ahead of the release of the Oyan Dam waters to avoid loss of lives. Bello said, “I want to use this medium to once again restate our resolve and readiness to step up our multifarious efforts to ensure that the heavy rainfalls which are expected to resume in September and cause flash flood will have minimal effect on the residents of the state. “Part of the new measures we are putting in place, in addition to existing efforts, is the provision of pumping stations in some low lying areas with risks of high intensity rains. “The pumping stations will ensure quick pumping of water from flooded neighbourhoods such as Isheri North and its environs, Owode areas, Agboyi Ketu and its environs and reduce risk of damages to properties.” While urging residents in the concerned areas to temporarily relocate, he noted that the management of Ogun Osun River Basin Authority which manages the Oyan Dam had signalled its readiness to commence staggered release of water to ensure the stability of its dam. Bello also said that the efforts of the state government in ensuring the massive dredging and cleaning of all canals and channels had continued unabated. He was pleased that some residents had played their parts by refraining from dumping refuse in canals, channels and waterways. The commissioner recalled that the Nigeria Meteorological Services NIMET forecast early this year predicted that Lagos State would experience a rainy season of 240 to 270 days, while the maximum annual rainfall was predicted to be 1,750mm. He observed that despite prevalence of rainfalls in June and July, the state had not experienced any major disaster or flooding which could have brought about loss of properties and lives. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 