What is the essence of corporate governance? The whole essence of corporate governance is not only for the benefit of the country or government, it is actually in the interest of the stakeholders of the company – those who have invested, those who are working there, and indirectly the government because there is a need for the sustainability of the business. There is a need to entrench corporate values and ethics in the business, and that is the only way the business can be sustained because at the end of every financial year, you close the books; so, you forget about the past and you are starting afresh. The question is: what is the guarantee that you will continue? The only thing that guarantees your continuity is to put structures in place for the management of the business that will take care of the interests of all the stakeholders, and enable the stakeholders to work together for the success of the company. The principles of corporate governance are not localised in the country; they are global principles accepted, and tested. There are four basic principles: transparency, fairness, responsibility and accountability. COVID-19 has destabilised all structures in place, and we need to reset. Corporate governance can be used to reset properly in order to restart our operations again. How would you describe the level of compliance to corporate governance in the country? I can say that the private sector is doing extremely well; all the stakeholders in the private sector actually talk about corporate governance on a regular basis. Now, we have platforms where managing directors, chief finance officers, company secretaries meet and the purpose of these platforms is to benchmark. What are you doing right? What can I copy from you? What can you learn from me also? There is information sharing on best practices. And the good thing is that majority of the companies, particularly the multinationals, also have their parent firms and subsidiaries outside the country. So, they know what they are doing there; they bring those best practices to this place, and our regulations are improving. The challenge with the public sector now is that there is no code of governance. What the Financial Reporting Council attempted to do in 2016 was to have a three-in-one code of corporate governance: We have part A dealing with the private sector; part B dealing with the public sector, and part C dealing with the non-for-profit sector. However, in the public sector, some of the institutions attended the three public hearings and they said the laws setting them up has stated how their business should be managed. They said the proposals in the code would infringe on those statutory provisions and the code cannot override the laws. Their position was that there was a need to amend the existing laws setting them up before the code could be applied. So, there was this back and forth. Eventually, the government felt, “Let us do this thing stage by stage; let us focus on the private sector.” What is your recommendation to the public sector in this regard? Pending when there would be a code for the public sector, every institution, every agency, every parastatal in public sector should have a compliance officer. It is in their interest to have a compliance officer who is a chartered secretary and administrator. In the private sector, it is compulsory; you must have a compliance officer who is well-positioned. We recommend that pending the release of the code of governance in the public sector, each Ministry, Department and Agency should appoint a secretary who should also be the compliance officer. There is no better professional well-equipped to perform the role of a compliance officer in each MDA than a chartered secretary. I am recommending that enabling laws establishing government agencies should make it mandatory for the appointment of a secretary (similar to the requirements in the private sector – Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance 2018) with clear provisions on qualifications including membership of ICSAN, experience, and a rigorous process of appointment similar to the members of council/board. Such a secretary in the public sector should be required to perform the duties of a compliance officer and charged with the responsibility of advising the council or board on issues relating to ethics, conflict of interests, governance and best practices, among others. How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected companies’ activities such as general meetings with shareholders? Nobody anticipated COVID-19, and I am not aware of any corporate body that had a budget for COVID-19 because it was too sudden. Unfortunately, when it happened, it came at the wrong time for the private sector because if you are familiar with the private sector, the season for holding annual general meetings is always the second quarter. Some of the banks in Nigeria try to hold their annual general meetings in March. Ninety per cent of the companies with December year-ending normally hold their annual general meetings in the second quarter. When COVID-19 came with the restriction on mass gathering, it became impossible for any company, particularly public limited companies. If you look at the attendance at previous AGMs, not less than 500 shareholders would attend the meeting. I think the Corporate Affairs Commission, maybe, because of the need to assist the private sector to just hold their corporate meetings came up with guidelines, advising corporate bodies to hold their AGMs by proxy. Instead of all the shareholders attending, just nominate few people that will still be within the 20 maximum limit in attendance. However, what the CAC did was to play safe by saying, “In view of the fact that all the shareholders will not have the opportunity to attend, we won’t allow you to just discuss any item that is outside the ordinary.” Was the guidelines introduced sufficient for companies to make decisions on cogent issues affecting them? The CAC did not look at the implications of limitations that the companies will not be able to consider any item under special business. That is, special business entails those urgent things that the company will need to do going forward because the ordinary business deals substantially with historical issues. In most cases, items under special business are those that will assist the organisation to manage issues. Those items were excluded. So, we drew their attention to that. We noted that there was another stock exchange requirement for listed companies. If you have transactions with your related party, for example, parent body, you must submit a resolution to the shareholders annually to renew that mandate and that comes under special business. So, it means that for all listed companies, that item cannot be considered. And you know some companies in Nigeria are in the country because they have subsidiaries worldwide. They buy finished products and spare parts from them; so if you cannot get the approval of the shareholders to continue that general mandate, that means you cannot do business with them going forward. So, it means you have to hold another general meeting. Has anything been done to address these lapses? We saw this gap. I wrote an article on it in April, and I circulated to all the regulators, saying there was a need for us to manage the unintended consequences of these guidelines. They wanted to assist, but in the process of assisting the business community, they inadvertently created another problem for them. Why can’t we use this interim problem to solve two problems – to hold the AGMs, and to allow the companies to also survive because they also need to consider necessary items under the special business? As a result of that, we started this business generally. The different regulators started strategising, but we felt that it was not enough for a regulator to be acting alone. So, we felt we should solve the problem once and for all. We have identified the problems. So, what we decided to do was to call the regulators together including the Securities and Exchange Commission, CAC, the Nigerian Stock Exchange, representatives of investors and the companies to deliberate on this. It was discussed and the regulators saw reasons why there should be an amendment. The CAC demonstrated its willingness to work with the private sector and they adjusted the guidelines, allowing companies to consider items under special business subject to their approval. What are the basic operations of ICSAN? It is an institute established by the Act of parliament in Nigeria and it is to enable the training of members, and for people to become members as chartered secretaries and administrators. It is one of the few professional bodies in Nigeria with dual mandates: to train people as chartered secretaries and to train people as chartered administrators. We are an offshoot of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries in UK, which actually started in 1891. The institute has moved on and is in several countries of the world. It was the need for chartered secretaries and administrators in both the public and private sector that necessitated this institute, which is a global institute. It is not something that is particular to Nigeria alone. If you go to most countries in the world, you will see sister bodies performing this particular role. We have our members working in paid employment; we have our members also setting up firms as charted secretaries, and consultants assisting organisations both in the public and private sectors. We have been in Nigeria for a very long time. Is the institute planning a name change? At our annual general meeting, we considered what we are doing currently. The roles of chartered secretaries have evolved over time from being chartered secretaries and administrators to being governance professionals. We are now compliance officers; we are now to advise the board on the issue of ethics, conflict of interests, and because of that, the external stakeholders over time have been regarding us as governance professionals. However, because our laws still call us chartered secretaries, we still answer that. We have decided to now move in line with the expanded roles we are handling, and that is the trend globally. Sister institutes around the world have moved to governance institute; so we have now changed. The members have approved the resolution changing the name of the institute to Chartered Governance Institute of Nigeria. How long has the institute been in existence, and what is your membership strength? Officially, we had our first president in 1966. But, we have been on since 1944, although there was no proper structure in place. So, officially, we reckon with when we put an official structure in place. The membership strength is growing; we are more than 5,000 and we have many students. Not less than 70 per cent of our members are lawyers. The beauty of the institute is that you are trained in all the relevant areas that make you to function in both the public and private sectors. So, it is an opportunity for those who were not comfortable with numeric to get involved, and get also more knowledge on administration and management of business, and also to ensure that they assist their clients. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 