Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin Special Adviser to Kwara State Governor on Healthcare, Prof. Wale Sulaiman, on Wednesday resigned his appointment. Sulaiman, in his letter of resignation titled, “My Resignation as Special Adviser on Health Matters to Gov AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, Prof. Wale Sulaiman,” said he resigned so that he could concentrate on his private business and foundation, RNZ Global Limited, where he serves as Chief Executive Officer/President. “My passion in life is to create opportunities where there are none, and to give hope to the underprivileged, using my skills, expertise, and professional network. “I had hoped that I could accomplish these goals as a public servant, but came to the realisation that I will be more effective and productive out of government.” The former Special Adviser said that within one year that he had served in the state public service, he had set in motion “a road map for better healthcare in Kwara State. I have developed policy documents and strategies for the government which will position Kwara as one of the states in Nigeria with better healthcare, if fully executed.” A statement signed by Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, said AbdulRazaq acknowledged “many positive contributions of Prof. Wale Sulaiman and the great strides he achieved together with him and others in the development of our health sector, including the campaign against the COVID-19 pandemic and thanked him most sincerely for what the administration has achieved together with him and wish him all the best in his future endeavours.” Meanwhile, Governor AbdulRazaq has named retired Brigadier-General Tunde Bello retd, former Military Administrator of Kebbi State between 1994 and 1996 as his Special Adviser on Security. The governor also appointed Aliyu Muyideen, an intelligence and counter-terrorism expert, as Senior Special Assistant on Security. The governor also appointed Prof. David Dunmade, an otolaryngology consultant and current director of the University of Ilorin Stem Cell Research Centre, as his Special Adviser on Health Matters. The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ilorin, Prof. Sulyman Abdulkareem, has congratulated Dunmade, on his appointment.