Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested two members of a syndicate after allegedly swindling a man out of his N148,000. The suspects were said to specialise in duping unsuspecting members of the public of their hard-earned money on the pretext of washing dollars for them. The suspects, Chicka Kasarachi and Ifeanyi Okechuckwu, reportedly lure their victims to their hideout on Koleosho Street, Anisere, Sango Ota in the Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said the suspects were arrested following a complaint by one Omeh Chidebere Ishoke, who reported them at the Sango Police Station. The PPRO said, “The victim complained that he was accosted by the suspects, who lured him to their hideout on Koleosho Street, Anisere, Sango Ota, where they collected the sum of N148,000 from him on the pretext that they would change the money to dollars for him and he would make a huge profit. “He stated further that the suspects also collected his MP3 mini speaker valued at N68,000, but no dollar was given to him at the end. “Upon the report, the DPO, Sango, CSP Godwin Idehai, quickly led his men to the hideout, where the two suspects were apprehended. “On interrogation, they confessed to being fraudsters and that they had duped many unsuspecting people using the same method.” Oyeyemi added that some items recovered from the suspects were unknown liquid substances, several fake American dollars and assorted charms. He said the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered a manhunt for other members of the syndicate, who are currently on the run. The CP, according to Oyeyemi, also directed that the past activities of the suspects be properly investigated with a view to bringing their nefarious activities to an end. The PPRO said Ajogun warned members of the public to beware of those who were out to dupe them by not being gullible. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  