Olufemi Olaniyi , Ibadan The Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, Dr Samuel  Uche, has said some governors in the country did not win elections but were imposed on their states by the judiciary. He stated further that a particular political party in the country was using the Supreme Court to award electoral victories to losers which he described as “huge corruption.” Uche said this on Friday while delivering a sermon at the funeral of the late Parakoyi of Ibadanland, Chief Bode Akindele,  which held at the Methodist Cathedral Central, Agbeni, Ibadan. The service was held in strict compliance with COVID-19 protocols as individuals without invitation cards were turned back while no one was allowed entry without a face mask. Akindele, a notable philanthropist and industrialist, died on June 29 at the age of 87. Paying tribute to Akindele, who was the Baba Ijo of the Methodist Cathedral, Agbeni, the Prelate said although, he just recovered from an illness, he decided to attend the funeral because of the deceased’s love for God and mankind. He described the late Parakoyi as a philanthropist, who cared so much about those around him, irrespective of religion or ethnic group. Uche said the late businessman was personally good to him, especially when he travelled to London and showed him and others love on many occasions. He said, “I want Nigerians to emulate this man’s generosity. Let everybody live by example and not with impunity. In Nigeria today, I weep every day when I see the people they call herdsmen, bandits, unknown gunmen, cattle rustlers, Boko Haram and ISWAP  killing people and  destroying lives. The killings are selective, they are killing Christians. “The monumental rate of corruption and impunity and election rigging is alarming.  Electoral victories are given  to some undeserving candidates through the court of law . “There is a political party here in Nigeria; even, when you didn’t win an election, the party would give you victory through the Supreme Court. Yes, I am saying it and I want the media to record it. “Many governors are Supreme Court governors; they are not supposed to be there. They  didn’t win through the ballots and are not supposed to be there.  This is lawlessness and that is why I call some of our courts, court of lawlessness.  That is what we have in Nigeria. ‘‘We also have kidnappings, human trafficking, baby factories, hate speech, tribalism and so on. These are the things we have in Nigeria. But whether  you are a Christian, Muslim or Hindu, all of us will give account before God.’’ “We must remind ourselves that there is judgment at the end of our journey here on earth and God does not accept what we call plea bargaining. No. You are pronouncing where you will spend your eternity by what you do everyday.” The Prelate frowned on politicians defecting from one political party to another just to win elections. Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde , who was also present to pay his last respect to the departed son of Ibadan described the deceased  as “ a cheerful giver and an entrepreneur with great sound business judgement.” The governor recalled that  Akindele  offered his medical facility as an isolation centre for COVID-19, describing the gesture as a great demonstration of his love for the state and its people. He also said the late entrepreneur was the single largest donor to the Oyo State COVID-19 fund. Makinde, who did not wear a face mask while addressing the congregation apologised for removing it,  saying  he would “not shed coronavirus”  since he was a COVID-19 survivor. The governor later  wore the mask while greeting the widows. Responding to the call of the Prelate to support the Wesley University, Ondo, the governor promised to support the institution, but noted that whatever he would donate would come from his personal purse. The Olubadan  of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, was  represented by Chief Lekan Alabi, at the ceremony, among other notable personalities who came to honour the departed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 