How did you get into the beauty business? I went into it a few years ago when I had issues with my skin. I had tried many things but they didn’t work, so I had to start reading and researching myself. I made some products for myself and it worked like magic. People used to compliment my skin and asked what I used. That was when I realised that I liked giving people advice on skincare. I have been in business for about four years now. The COVID-19 pandemic affected a lot of businesses. Did it affect your sales? The truth is that during the lockdown, I made more sales than ever because I made people see reasons to care for their skin. People had less stress to contend with and I advised them to try out our products. It was the perfect time for the skincare business. Many wanted to look good when they resumed work after the lockdown was over. For my business, the lockdown was favourable. Now that the economy is opening up though, people are a little more prudent with their spending. A lot of people are skeptical about products made in Nigeria. How do you reassure your customers? Our products are safe. We sent them to certified laboratories for analysis and all we are expecting now is the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control number. As a matter of fact, the process is already on, including NAFDAC inspections. If our products were not safe, I wouldn’t register them. Some people don’t use the right products, so they conclude that the products aren’t working. Meanwhile, they just didn’t use the right products for their skin types. The fact that a product worked on one person does not mean it would work on another individual. I counsel and ask questions to understand each client’s skin type. Some people believe they can use make-up to cover flaws (on their skins). What’s your take on that? Make-up should not always be the solution because sometimes, one’s skin just needs to breathe. In this part of the world, we don’t check the ingredients used in making the products that we use. There are some products that contain ingredients that one’s skin would ‘react’ to. By reading labels, one becomes familiar with these things. As a young woman in business, what are the lessons you have learnt? Make your mistakes your own way. There is nothing wrong with starting small; just don’t give up. If it is your dream, stay focused. Beginnings are never rosy but along the line, one would learn from one’s mistakes. Those experiences would make one better. Have you ever been at the receiving end of any stereotype? Some people believe that the skincare business is all about bleaching. People attack me on social media and I used to feel bad. Now, I just reply and block them. You can’t make me feel less than I am anymore. This business has made me realise that there is demand and supply. Whether one supplies it or not, someone else would do it. So, why shouldn’t one do it? Skincare is not bleaching. Some people don’t believe in putting their business on social media as a result of backlash and criticism. What’s your take on that? Why wouldn’t you put your business on social media, especially Instagram? Billions of dollars are made on Instagram every day. One just has to know one’s way around it. I made my first million on Instagram, so my advice is that people should put their business online. Things are changing now and the world is going online. E-commerce is taking over traditional commerce. All my international clients got to know me through my social media handles. How profitable is the business? I don’t have any other business. This is all I have for now and it pays the bills. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 