Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission says it has launched an investigation into the activities of the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio; and the acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Prof. Kemebradikumo Pondei. The EFCC said this in an invitation letter addressed to a group, Foundation for True Freedom and Good Governance, led by activist, Deji Adeyanju. The letter signed by the Head, Economic Governance Section, Adebayo Adeniyi, dated August 14, 2020, with reference number 3000/EFCC/ABJ/HQ/EG/T.6/Vol4/044, is titled, ‘Re: Request for Investigation of Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, and Prof. Daniel Pondei, acting MD NDDC over Corruption Allegations of Diversion of Public Funds’ In the letter, the EFCC revealed that it was indeed probing the NDDC and called on Adeyanju to come clarify some of the allegations. The letter read in part, “We write to acknowledge the receipt of your petition dated August 3, 2020 in respect of the above subject and to inform you that investigation into the case has commenced. “In view of the above, you are kindly requested to attend an interview with the undersigned through the O/C team six on Thursday, August 20, 2020 at EFCC headquarters third floor.” The leadership of the NDDC is currently being probed by the National Assembly for allegedly mismanaging N80bn. The EFCC Spokesman, Dele Oyewale, did not respond to calls on Wednesday. Also, the Head of the Public Affairs Division of the NDDC, Mr. Charles Odili, rejected calls and asked our correspondent to send him a text message. However, he had yet to respond to the message. A Spokesman for Akpabio, Anietie Ekong, neither responded to calls nor a text message on Wednesday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  