Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The remains of the Afenire leader, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, were on Tuesday interred in his Iye Ekiti hometown in the Ilejemeje Local Government Area of Ekiti State. Fasanmi died last week in Osun State at the age of 94. Eminent Nigerians, including governors Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) and Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos); Osun State Deputy Governor, Mr Benedict Alabi; and Ekiti State Deputy Governor, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, were at St. John’s Anglican Church, Iye Ekiti, venue of the funeral service. Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, described Fasanmi’s death as “a monumental and personal loss to me,” saying his immense sacrifices to national development should never be forgotten. The governor in a tribute titled, ‘Tribute to a man of integrity, the late Senator Ayorinde Fasanmi,’ said, “As a token of appreciation to his contribution to the development of Ekiti, Nigeria and humanity, and particularly for being an embodiment of the finest Ekiti values, my government named one of the newly-created secondary schools after him. “I am glad we did this during his life time. My only regret was that he has now left us before the school will be officially inaugurated for academic activities when schools finally reopen. Chief Ayo Fasanmi has come, he has seen and conquered.” Also, the Ekiti Council of Elders in a message by its president, Prof. Joseph Oluwasanmi, said the late Fasanmi had “served Ekiti, Yorubaland and Nigeria in several capacities and had been a worthy ambassador of Ekiti and one of its shining lights.” The APC National leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, represented by former Lagos Deputy Governor, Prince Ogunleye, described Fasanmi as “a civilian revolutionist and a politician of outstanding mien,” saying Nigerians should learn from the late politician, who lived a modest and spartan lifestyle. Akeredolu, who spoke on behalf of the South-West governors, described the elder statesman’s death as “a loss to Yoruba race and Nigeria at large,” saying, “Baba living long for 94 years is not what we are celebrating, but we are celebrating how many lives he had impacted. He lived an impactful life.” Sanwo-Olu, represented by the Special Adviser on Civic Engagements, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, said Fasanmi’s influence became more pronounced by his incorruptible nature. In his sermon, the Bishop of Ekiti Oke, Anglican Communion, Reverend Peter Olubowale, who said Fasanmi corroborated that “life is not important except it has impacts on others,” urged Nigerians to continually do good to humanity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  