Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Bishop of the Diocese of Ijebu South-West, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Reverend Babatunde Ogunbanwo, says the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has failed Nigerians. Ogunbanwo made this declaration on Friday in his bishop charge during the first session of the fourth synod of the Diocese in Odogbolu, Ogun State. He said Buhari’s failure was hinged on the continuous killings in the country, especially in the Christian dominated part of Kaduna State – Southern Kaduna. The cleric described the President as ‘weak and clueless about insecurity challenges facing the country.” He claimed the challenges of insecurity in the country had created fear in Nigerians, adding that the killing of Christians in the state emanated through ethnic conflicts. The bishop, however, called on the Federal Government and international organisations to find a lasting solution to the resurgence of attacks by killer herdsmen, bandits, armed robbers and other security threats in the country. He said, “We are quite concerned about the spate of unwanted killings going on in the Christian dominated Southern Kaduna, in Kaduna State. “It is so sad that this cycle of unprovoked violence and destruction of human lives and property have gone unchecked for many years without much intervention from Nigeria’s security units, Kaduna State (Government) and Federal Government. “From the look of things, it is becoming clear that the perpetrators of these murderous acts are on a mission of genocide and ethnic cleansing. The government has so far failed to prove to us that it is willing to bring a permanent end to this persisting carnage. “The Christians of Southern Kaduna and the indigenous ethnic nationalities in that part of the country, like all other Nigerians, have a God-given right to live in safety and enjoy the blessings God has bestowed on their land without any fear of molestation and threat to their lives. “It is also the duty of the government and its agencies saddled with the security of the citizens of this country to defend and protect all those in that part of our nation from their predators. “We call on the Federal Government, led by President Muhammdu Buhari, to wake up from its deep slumber and end this bloodbath just as he promised he would do if elected. The international community too should not continue to keep quiet over the security situation in Nigeria, especially as it has to do with the targeted killing of defenseless Christians and decimation of Christian communities.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 