Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Kastina State Police Command has arrested the suspected leader of a human trafficking syndicate, Abubakar Habibu, at a checkpoint in the state. It was gathered that Habibu was arrested at a checkpoint in the Kongolom-Daura area of the state. The PUNCH learnt that the suspect and his gang members had earlier been declared wanted in connection with a human trafficking case that the command was working on. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Gambo Isah, said in a statement on Sunday that members of the syndicate were specialists in conveying their victims on motorcycles through the Nigerian border to the Niger Republic for onward transfer to Libya and Europe. READ ALSO: Na’Abba’s DSS invitation not about Buhari -Presidency He stated, “On August 11, 2020, around 4.30pm, based on a reliable tip-off, the command succeeded in arresting one Abubakar Habibu of Koza Village, Maiadua LGA of Katsina State, a notorious kingpin of a human trafficking syndicate terrorising the state. He was arrested at a police checkpoint along the Kongolom-Daura Road, Katsina State, and he is wanted in connection with a case of human trafficking, which is under investigation by the command. “The syndicate specialises in conveying their victims on motorcycles across the Nigerian border to the Niger Republic for onward trafficking to Libya and Europe. In the course of the investigation, the suspect confessed to the offence. Efforts are ongoing to arrest other members of the syndicate. Investigation is ongoing.” The command said it also arrested members of a syndicate that specialised in receiving rustled cattle from bandits in the state. It was gathered that the suspects, Abdullahi Saidu and Jafaru Aminu, who are from the Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of the state, were found in possession of 12 stolen cows when arrested. Isah said the suspects confessed to have received the cows from bandits in the Faskari Local Government Area of the state. “On August 12, 2020, around 2 pm, based on credible intelligence, the operatives of the State Intelligence Bureau, Katsina Command, succeeded in arresting Abdullahi Saidu and Jafaru Aminu, both of the Birnin Gwari LGA of Kaduna State in possession of 12 stolen cows; in the course of investigation the suspects confessed to having received the cows from bandits in the Faskari LGA of Katsina State with an intent to dispose them off. Investigation is still ongoing,” the PPRO added.