Wale Oyewale Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, on Saturday, visited the Oluyole Estate, Ibadan home of the late National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, describing him as a veritable bridge builder whose contribution would be sorely missed. The vice-president, who came in company with his wife, Dolapo and son, Fiyin, spoke shortly after signing the condolence register for the late Ajimobi around 4:30pm at the residence. The visit came 41 days after the passage of the former governor. He arrived at the residence of the deceased in company with the Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Rauf Olaniyan, and other government functionaries. Osinbajo, who described his death as a big loss to the party and nation as a whole, said late Ajimobi’s spirit of compromise, brotherhood and unending desire of seeking everyone to work together, would be a guide and direction for the party and country for years to come. He said his death was more painful considering the fact that his contribution was most needed at this period. Osinbajo said, “Senator Abiola Ajimobi, aside from the fact that I regarded him as a very dear older brother, was a major bridge builder in the party. READ ALSO: Kashamu evaded justice, couldn’t escape death – Obasanjo “He was someone who could mediate practically in any dispute by not just bringing humour but also light and direction. For us, it was a very major loss especially at this time. “So, it’s a great loss but we thank God that he lived and did all that he did and that he has left an incredible memory and incredible legacies for us.” The vice-president charged Ajimobi’s widow, Florence, the children and Ajimobi family to take solace in the fact that he bequeathed to them a good legacy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 