’Femi Asu The Federal Government on Thursday inspected the modular refinery project in Ologbo, Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area of Edo State which has reached 95 per cent mechanical completion, the Edo State Government has said. The state government disclosed this in a statement titled ‘FG’s delegation inspects Edo Modular Refinery, certifies mechanical works 95 per cent ready’. The Federal Government was quoted as saying the project, when completed, would attract more investment in modular refineries in the country, generate employment and reduce youth restiveness in the Niger Delta. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Mr Edobor Iyamu, who spoke during an inspection visit to the refinery, commended the Edo State Government for ensuring that the modular refinery comes on stream, according to the statement. He said the establishment of the refinery was in line with the new vision for the Niger Delta, ensuring that the people benefit maximally from the wealth in the region. Iyamu added that the project was aimed at promoting the establishment of modular refinery projects in the area to attract investment into the oil and gas sector. The Chairman, Edo Refinery and Petrochemical Company, Mr Michael Osime, represented by the company’s Global Advisor, Frans Ojielu, said the company was being supported by the Edo State Government with a N700m project fund. According to him, the 6,000-barrels-per-day plant also has a fabrication yard to boost local capacity to produce materials and provide a robust support for establishment of more modular refineries. Osime added that discussions were ongoing with Ambrose Alli University to assist in training Nigerians for the oil and gas industry. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  