LARA ADEJORO A Professor of Public Health, Tanimola Akande says eliminating sleeping sickness by 2030 is feasible in Nigeria, noting that all the nation requires to achieve the feat is determination and focus. It would be recalled that the World Health Organisation and partners are targeting the elimination of sleeping sickness as a public health problem from all endemic countries by 2030. Speaking in an interview with PUNCH HealthWise, Prof. Akande said that what is required to eradicate the disease (the gambiense form) is not huge capital, but proper implementation of a strategic programme of action. He, however, noted that the task only becomes herculean because of the landmass in the country. Recall that Togo became the first African country to eliminate sleeping sickness as a public health problem on Thursday. Human African trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, is a vector-borne parasitic disease. It is caused by infection with protozoan parasites belonging to the genus Trypanosoma, the World Health Organisation said. “They are transmitted to humans by tsetse fly (Glossina genus) bites which have acquired their infection from human beings or from animals harbouring human pathogenic parasites,” WHO noted. Akande, who is also the former National Chairman of the Association of Public Health Physicians of Nigeria, noted that once tsetse fly is dealt with, then Nigeria is close to eradicating the disease. He said tsetse fly bites and introduces trypanosomes into a human. On the symptoms of the disease, he said, “The bite erupts into a red skin rash and victims have a fever, swelling of lymph glands. “Other symptoms include blood in urine, aching muscles and joints, headaches. “In the second stage, the lymph node enlargement is worsened and then the disease affects the central nervous system, leading to changes in personality, confusion, slurred speech, seizures and difficulty in walking and talking. It is called sleeping sickness because it disturbs sleep pattern. “These problems can develop over many years and if not treated, it can lead to death,” he said. He added that “If every effort is made to see that we don’t have tsetse fly again, then we can eradicate it. “We have the Nigerian Institute for Trypanosomiasis Research in Kaduna, involved in producing insecticides that deal with the vector and some other measures are put in place to protect people from getting bitten by the tsetse fly, especially in areas where the tsetse fly is common.” According to him, the disease is better prevented as it can be fatal if left untreated. “You control the vector by use of chemicals and protect people by what they wear and ensure that they don’t expose their bodies.  To continue reading this story, go to: https//healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  