’Femi Asu Neconde Energy Limited, an independent oil and gas company in Nigeria, has said the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill into law will cause a paradigm shift that will lead to the development of the oil and gas sector. The Head of Gas Ventures at Neconde, Chichi Emenike, said the declaration of 2020 as the year of gas could be used to cause economic recovery post-COVID-19 pandemic. Emenike, who spoke on Thursday at a webinar on gas as a new frontier for economic growth, said the speedy passage of the PIB would encourage more investors in the sector to see Nigeria as a choice investment destination where their stakes would be protected. According to her, Nigeria can’t afford to continue to be seen as a country with regulatory uncertainty in its oil and gas sector when smaller countries have since emplaced valuable legislations that have strengthened their oil and gas industries. The PIB, which has been in the works since 2008 when it was first introduced to the legislature, suffered setbacks in the 6th, 7th and 8th National Assembly. The bill seeks to change the organisational structure and fiscal terms governing the industry. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said recently that the PIB would soon be presented to the 9th National Assembly. Emenike said, “Aside from the willing-buyer-willing-seller approach that will drive the sector with appropriate gas pricing, the full liberalisation of the sector should be considered by the government in order to attract the much-needed investments on key gas infrastructures across the country.” She commended the Federal Government for the recent inauguration of the Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code, saying the initiative would liberalise the gas market and address infrastructure constraints in the sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 