’Femi Asu KPMG Professional Services has stressed the need for banks in Nigeria to increase their capabilities to deliver products and services through digital channels amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The firm said this on Wednesday while announcing that it would release the digital channels scorecard for retail banks in Nigeria at its upcoming webinar, themed ‘Leveraging superior UX on digital channels to drive retail banking growth’ A Partner and Lead, Digital Transformation, KPMG Africa, Boye Ademola, at a virtual press conference, said, “At KPMG, we believe one of the enduring responses to the pandemic now and post-COVID-19 is digital. In simple terms, banks need to urgently scale up on capabilities to deliver products and services via digital channels. “It is in this light that we have performed a series of user journey-centred assessments culminating in the digital channels scorecard for retail banks in Nigeria. The scorecard provides an industry perspective of how effective banks are in delivering products and services to customers via digital channels by measuring user experiences across a range of journeys for each bank.” He said the webinar, slated to be held virtually next week, would attract a variety of business leaders from financial services, telecoms and other sectors with a keen focus on retail growth via digital capabilities. The Partner in charge of Strategy and Digital, Management Consulting, KPMG in Nigeria, Ngozi Chidozie, said the webinar would highlight the firm’s observations on leading practices, emerging trends and perspectives on opportunities for improvement of the overall digital channels experience across the Nigerian retail banking sector. “The release of the Digital Channels Scorecard publication is the first in a series to come, designed by KPMG for retail banks in Nigeria to have an objective understanding of their competitive positioning with respect to leveraging digital capabilities to deliver products and services,” the Partner in charge of Digital Transformation, Ladi Asuni, said. According to an Associate Director and Lead, Digital Platforms, KPMG Africa, Tunji Odumuboni, the scorecard measures the quality of customer experience as they utilise products and services on four distinct channels – mobile, Internet, USSD and chatbot. “The scorecard covers 13 anchor journeys grouped into five thematic areas, viz: digital onboarding, payments and transfers, self-service, lending and customer care,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com