When you think of a fleet manager, you probably think of somebody sitting behind their desk, typing away on a computer all day. In today’s world, that’s the antithesis of what a fleet manager should be. GPSWOX knows this, which is why they built a state-of-the-art mobile fleet tracking application – GPSWOX Mobile Client. It’s a powerful tool tracking that lets the fleet managers of today track everything they need to know, on the go. Easy to use You don’t want to spend a ton of time trying to figure out how to use it to track your fleet. That’s why GPSWOX Mobile Client was built for anybody to use and understand. With lists and satellite/map imagery that comes up with the click of a button, it’s never been easier for a fleet manager to keep track of their fleet. With an uncluttered screen and designed with intuitive controls, you won’t have any problem navigating to the information that you need. Available for both Android and iOS devices, it’s guaranteed to work on your phone or tablet. And the best part is that since it’s a mobile app, you can access your fleet information from anywhere! Everything the busy fleet manager needs Mobile applications are useless unless they tell you everything you need to know about your fleet. You need a mobile app that gives you all the essential information about your fleet without all the useless fillers. You can view a dashboard of the entire fleet on one screen, allowing you to easily see the status of your fleet and make decisions in real-time. From real-time fleet positions to historical fleet activity and reports for detailed and summary fleet information, it has everything that you are looking for. And with configurable alert options, you can get instant notifications sent directly to your phone or tablet. Because when something goes wrong, you don’t want to wait to find out. Of course, GPSWOX Mobile Client doesn’t bog down the application with useless information, making it easier than ever to get to the information that you care about. And since there are so many customization options, you can decide what’s important. A professional image – customized to you Your business deserves a professional look. With GPSWOX Mobile Client, you can customize your logo and colors to match your business. Don’t like the look of the home screen? Change the template that you’re using with ease. Or, customize your login window to set your business apart. With GPSWOX Mobile Client, you’re getting a personalized product delivered directly to your phone or tablet. You’re managing an entire fleet of vehicles, look the part. Conclusion Over 1,500 businesses use GPSWOX in 123 countries. Find out why GPSWOX has found success around the globe. With professional applications like GPSWOX Mobile Client and Mobile GPS Tracker that let you manage your fleet on the go with ease, it’s no wonder that businesses love GPSWOX. Author: Tadas Ukrinas GPSWOX LTD