Oladapo Ashiru A good way to test your need for more fibre is the bowel transit time test. Bowel transit time is the time it takes for food to travel through your system, from when you eat it to when it exits your body. All you need to do is eat some food that can serve as a marker when it appears in the stool. Fresh corn on the cob is one such food; we digest the starch within the kernels but not the kernels themselves, which will be visible in the bowel movement when they are passed. Simply eat some corn and watch your bowel movements until you see the kernels. That is your bowel transit time. A healthy transit time is 18 to 24 hours. In the United States of America, common bowel transit times are found to be two to three days, a good indicator of the need for more fibre and water in the diet. Nutrients and colon cancer Fibre isn’t the only thing you eat that affects your risk of colon cancer. A deficiency of some nutrients can also predispose one to colon cancer. Antioxidants protect against all types of cancer and all of the chronic degenerative diseases that plague many cultures such as heart disease, arthritis, and diabetes. Your first source of antioxidants should be fresh fruits and vegetables. A good multivitamin can give you added protection. The most important antioxidants are vitamin C (take 1,000mg daily), vitamin E (400 IU daily), and vitamin A (take 5,000 to 10,000 IU daily). Other types of antioxidants can be found in the bio-flavinoids found in fruits especially berries and supplements made from grape seed extract, quercetin, and green tea extracts. Again, these types of supplements, as powerful as they can be, are no substitute for eating fresh fruits and vegetables. The Trace Minerals Zinc (10 to 15mg daily) and Selenium (200 micrograms daily) are also powerful antioxidants and are essential to the health of the colon. Studies have repeatedly linked selenium deficiencies to colon cancer. One study showed a 40 per cent reduction in new colon cancer cases in populations who took selenium supplements. Onions and garlic are great sources of selenium. Calcium is another mineral that has been repeatedly shown to have a beneficial effect on the colon. It is thought to help prevent colon cancer by binding with bile salts and fatty acids that can damage the colonic epithelium and enhance cell proliferation. 300mg of calcium daily combined with at least 150mg of magnesium should confer protection against colon cancer. Milk, while it’s a good source of calcium, should be avoided by adults since it often causes chronic inflammation of the gut that potentially increases the risk of cancer. Vitamin D is essential to good colon health and sunshine is the best place to get your daily dose. Vitamin D is so essential to prevent the risk of getting colon cancer that the risk of getting it is doubled in those who have the lowest levels. People who can’t get outside much or live in northern latitudes can take up to 2,000mg daily, although if you take that much, get a Vitamin D test after a few months. Folate (folic acid) is a B vitamin that is well known for preventing birth defects and I recommend it for preventing and treating cervical dysplasia. The Harvard Nurses’ Study showed that women who supplemented with folate long-term have a significantly reduced risk of colon cancer. A good multivitamin will contain 400mcg (micrograms) of folic acid. Probiotics are the beneficial bacteria found in the colon. There are at least 400 species of these ‘good’ bacteria and hundreds of billions of them live in your large intestine. They keep “bad” bacteria in check and help process waste as it moves through the large intestine. A lack of probiotics, usually caused by taking antibiotics that indiscriminately kill off good and bad bacteria can lead to inflammation of the bowels, gas, constipation and generally poor digestion. If you take an antibiotic, follow it up with a week of eating yogurt or kefir daily, which contains live cultures of the probiotics (it should say on the container that it contains live cultures), or you can take a probiotic supplement, easily found at your neighbourhood pharmacy. It is difficult to imagine a more cost-effective way of reducing the risk of colon cancer (and degenerative diseases in general) than to return to a high fibre diet and eat plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables. I can think of no better example of the axiom that prevention is better than treatment. Mayr therapy between five and 10 days every six months or annually has proved the most useful way of cleaning the colon and getting it free of an old toxic waste of inappropriately digested food and bad eating habits. Such therapy will also make use of an antioxidant to irrigate the colon as well as the use of physiotherm cabin to remove toxins from the body circulation. The centre also makes use of saline oxygenators and respiratory oxygenator to kill any intending cancer cell. The beauty of Mayr therapy is that you get equipped with a new lifestyle and eating habit that helps to face future eating habits. It is worth it to make the simple lifestyle changes that can help prevent this cancer and will help prevent other cancers, heart disease and diabetes in the process. Concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 