DAUD OLATUNJI THE Ogun State Government says it will conduct COVID-19 and malaria  tests   for boarding  students  ahead of their resumption on  Monday . The government said the test commenced from Friday July 31 and would end on Monday, August 3 before the students would resume. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Primary and Secondary Education, Mrs Ronke Soyombo, stated this in a statement on Friday . Soyombo said the arrangement was part of the  efforts by the state government to ensure a safe learning academic atmosphere for both students and teachers of all  public and private schools in the state. Following the directive from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, the state government said it instructed  all principals of schools, both private and public, to inform the concerned students of government’s plans. She said, “The instruction is that all the returning boarding students are to stay in the school hostels  only. “That parents are hereby advised that private hostels are exempted from accommodating students during this period to ensure strict compliance with the NCDC directives. “That the Ogun State Ministry of Health has made provision for COVID-19 and malaria tests for all SS3 boarding  students in Ogun State as part of the conditions for the  re-opening of schools in the underlisted public health care facilities between Friday 31st July and Monday 3rd August, 2020.” She said for schools in Abeokuta, the students are to take their tests at the 250 MTR, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, while students in  Ado-Odo Ota, had  been asked to go to the state General Hospital, Ota Students in Sagamu would take the test at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu. Soyombo, however, said only students who returned negative would be admitted into the schools for preparation for the exams. She added, “Part of the conditions  of admittance to school for boarding students is the COVID-19 certificate  showing  negative.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  