To enjoy some special benefit from various internet services. You are going to a card. This card is called Virtual Credit Card. This is can also be prepaid card. This term is usually used by some enterprises and companies. What is Virtual Credit Card? In this current world we live in, technological advances is changing the narrative. Most online shopping platform, usually transact using credit card. The virtual credit card happens to be present in the same dimension as the credit card. It helps in keeping your CC information secret. The Virtual CC Numbers are also validated; meaning they appear like a CC numbers. So, you don’t have to worry about information theft when you transact online. Apart from the main use of payment of internet services. Virtual Credit cards doesn’t have other uses. One major difference between the Virtual Credit Card and the Real Credit Card. It’s the physicality, one has a physical form while the other a virtual form. You should know which is which already. The Virtual Credit Card is not used for one type of transaction. Which is Physical Transaction. Due to the increasing rate of identity theft. The VCC helps to protect your real physical credit card. It also protects the information on the real credit card from hackers. Importance of Using Virtual Credit Card Online market businesses and banks usually offer users their own personal VCC. Virtual Credit Cards have both its advantage and its disadvantage. Since there are various types of Virtual Credit Card providers. But picking the best one for yourself is important.  While picking a Virtual Credit Card, look out for a unique characteristic. This special characteristic is very important and its plays a vital role. It makes Virtual Credit Card a trusted method to pay cash on the net. You can check below for more information about Virtual Credit Card. Advantages and Disadvantages of Virtual Credit Card. Virtual Credit Card offers to help its users secure their information. So, it secures the users bank account/credit card safe. Any transactions done using Virtual Credit Card is safe and secure. It is much reliable and more secure than physical credit card. Users details can never be shared with merchants or sellers. The number generated by Virtual Credit Card is usually random. Using a Virtual Credit Card prevents any potential form of identity theft. That is, no one can use your virtual credit card. Making it one way to have a safe and secure transaction. Virtual Credit Card has always been something that can change. Specificity of what information you want on your Virtual Credit Card. Far from the normal physical credit card. You can specify your card at the point of issuance. This can be set on what you choose and require. It can be adjusted throughout the terms of agreement. Virtual Credit Card can help users regulate their spending. More like spending on specific site, so you don’t get addicted. You can easily set a spending limit for yourself. At times, there are rules and regulations on over spending. Just like physical credit card, always read the terms and conditions. Always go through their terms and conditions of your Virtual Credit Card. For every online transaction, virtual credit is needed. It is becoming a new trend for buyers. This method is fast and secure for many e-commerce sites. Merchants and sellers have developed this trust towards Virtual Credit Card. The reason for this, it’s a safe method of buying and selling on the internet. Though, some e-commerce site and online business don’t accept it. It usually requires a payment system. Which processes all the transactions. Although, popular online business have a place for Virtual Credit Card readers. Issues may arise from business that are not large scale. Types of Virtual Credit Card Providers to make use of. This is one of the best Virtual Credit Card to make use of. It provides its users a prepaid card and you can earn as you use. You get your earnings back annually. There is a format for how earnings are calculated. As a user, you can earn as high as $70. The more you use your Walmart Money card, the higher your earnings. One drawback about this card, it is only available and accessible to US citizens. As a user, you can also get prepaid visa charge cards and prepaid visa. Pros They offer their customers links between the merchants and the freelancers. It’s usually used by freelancers who work on various site. Multiple freelance account be linked to your Payoneer account. It allows users to deliver mass payout. Available worldwide. Pros This is the safest and reliable online VCC. They provide Virtual Credit Card to users which is free. It enables clients to take part in transactions with other platforms. You can connect your account directly to any e-commerce site for transactions. Pros Thus, Virtual Credit Card is one of the best leading VCC provider worldwide. It has well-structured plan. Which serves freelancers well. You can easily carry out reception and payment money. There is one unique feature it carries. This feature differentiates it from other VCC. It offers its clients products and services. This doesn’t take away the credit card based services. They offer the following Pros Another platform you will definitely enjoy using. It’s a finance platform that offers a wide range of services. They offer users Visa Debit card.  They also offer clients the Prepaid MasterCard. Like Payoneer, this Virtual Credit Card costs nothing. Though, you are charged a percentage cost on your new purchases. Pros Are you looking for a reliable and trustworthy Virtual Credit Card? Here is the Virtual Credit Card you are looking for. Yes, others listed are as good but some are a bit better. They have kept the best record since 2018 among the best of the best. It’s an online merchant platform, that suited to the freelancers and merchants. They can carry out payment processes. You can receive cash money. What do you need to get your hands on this card? All you have to do is quite simple. Provision of some data which include; Pros Among VCC providers, this is the most competent and reliable VCC provider. They offer users with some quality services. Some services and perks that makes it stand out from the crowd. It is usually termed as the best VCC. Pros This was an agency developed in India. It stands from the rest. You can use it only once. That is, no one can steal your card identity and make use of it. Pros In conclusion, Yes, we have listed the best Virtual Credit Card you can use. It is now in your hand to pick which suits you. With the list, I hope you have gotten an idea of what you want. Just pick the one you feel will suit your needs. Author: Tadas Ukrinas UAB Potissimus