Kelvin Ekerete Olympian and former Nigerian boxer, Jerry Okorodudu, was discharged from a hospital in Ikorodu, Lagos on Wednesday, after the intervention of sports minister Sunday Dare and retired boxers. The 61-year-old, who spent three days at the hospital, was discharged after surgery, following a boil that prevented him from walking or standing. However, the Los Angeles ‘84 Olympics boxer was only discharged after Dare and the ex-boxers sent money to his wife, Nike, to offset his medical bills, our correspondent gathered. “I am feeling better now. I had an operation on my buttocks and I was unable to walk or stand before the operation,” Okorodudu told The PUNCH on Wednesday. “The medical bills have been settled. Now, I will go to the hospital from home for the dressing of the wound and medication.” Okorodudu, who said he was owed three months salaries as national boxing coach, added that he was yet to receive any help from the Nigeria Boxing Federation. “I have not heard from anyone at the federation except ex-boxers and the minister, through Mary Onyali. They are the only ones assisting me. I spent N150, 000 for the three days I was at the hospital and the treatment continues for the next 10 days.” Wife of the Olympian, Nike, confirmed that the family received N50,000 from the minister. Special Adviser to the sports minister, Mary Onyali, told The PUNCH, “The information about Okorodudu reached the ministry on Saturday and immediately the minister detailed me to work on the case and we’ve been doing that relentlessly. “Because of the urgency of his health situation, the minister immediately ordered that N50,000 be given to him from his personal purse to help augment his bills. All through, I have been in constant communication with his wife, from the moment I got the directive to work on his case.” Onyali added that the ministry was working towards paying Okorodudu’s salary arrears. “The payment of his three months’ arrears was one of the two prayers he (Okorodudu) put up to me when I spoke to him and his wife, that he needs money for his health. And we tried our best. His contract was with the defunct National Sports Commission. “We got the prayers on Saturday and we are working on everything simultaneously. His letter was received on Tuesday and it’s on my table, we are working on it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com