Sodiq Oyeleke Inspector Ago Egharevbe has been dismissed by the Osun State Police Command for allegedly brutalising a 20-year-old fashion designer, Ayomide Taiwo, to death. Ayomide had been in a coma since Tuesday following the attack by Egharepbe, a police officer attached to Ibokun Divisional Headquarters, Osun State. The PUNCH reports that Ayomide, a resident of Owena, was travelling back to his base from Iragbiji after the Eid-el-Kabir festival with his friend, Wasiu Oladimeji, when their motorcycle was stopped by some policemen at a checkpoint in Ilahun. Oladimeji, while narrating how the incident happened on Thursday, explained that the policemen stopped their motorcycle and demanded a bribe. An uncle to the deceased, Segun Agboola, told The PUNCH that Ayomide passed on around 10am on Sunday. The Command’s spokesperson, Opalola Yemisi, in a statement on Sunday in Osogbo, explained that Egharevbe was arrested after the incident. READ ALSO: Obiano’s SSA Security murdered Yemisi said the inspector had been tried in orderly room and that the Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, had recommended his dismissal to the Inspector General of Police. The statement read, “The Osun State Police Command wishes to state that the officer, Inspector Ago Egharepbe, who brutalised a civilian in Ibokun has been tried and dismissed from the force. “The Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, has recommended his dismissal to the Inspector General of Police and he has been dismissed. “He will be charged to court on Monday for murder. “CP Adie and the entire Osun Police Command commiserate with the family and friends of Ayomide Taiwo on the death of their loved one as we promised to ensure justice is served,” Opalola said. Confirming the death, Mr Popoola Adebayo, the deceased boss, said Ayomide died on Sunday “as he had remained unconscious since the attack five days ago.” Earlier, Wasiu said when they got to Ilahun village, along Ibokun road at about 3:30 pm, they met police officers at a checkpoint who ordered their bike to stop. He said one the officers became aggrieved when he asked Ayomide to pay N50, but he delayed in paying. Wasiu said when the officer found out that Ayomide had a huge sum of money with him, he became furious and hit him with the butt of the gun, which forced both of them to fall down and Ayomide became unconscious.