John Alechenu, Abuja The Director-General of the Progressives Governors’ Forum, Dr. Salihu Lukeman, has raised the alarm over what he described as the diminishing electoral value of the All Progressives Congress. The PGF is the umbrella body of the governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. He said this in a statement titled: “Progressive Politics – Which Way APC?”, which he signed and issued in Abuja, on Saturday. Lukeman expressed sadness that the dissolution of the Adams Oshimohole-led National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress hasn’t solved the party’s diminishing electoral viability. He said, “We need to remind our leaders that the last leadership crisis was triggered by the deep concerns around the diminishing electoral viability of the party. “The reality is, resolving the last leadership crisis with the dissolution of the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC has not solved the problem of diminishing electoral viability of the party. “Therefore, what is it that needs to be done to address the problem of diminishing electoral viability of the APC? Do our leaders even agree that the APC is faced with the problem of diminishing electoral viability? Read also: Nigerian basketball player, Ojo, dies during training in Serbia “This may be the problem partly because if our leaders are unable to recognise that the APC is faced with the problem of diminishing electoral viability then there is a big problem. In the present day Nigeria, with tempers very high everywhere and all manner of negatively imposed public perception, which are false and mostly engineered by our political opponents, it is only people who don’t believe in the votes of citizens as the determinant of electoral victories that will imagine that the APC’s electoral prospects are high.” The PGF DG noted that Progressive politics is dynamic, action-oriented, and tailored towards the improvement of the lives of ordinary folks. Speaking about the forthcoming Governorship Elections in Edo and Ondo States, Lukeman said while efforts being made by Governor Rotimi Akerodolu to reconcile with aggrieved party members and leaders in the state were commendable, the same cannot be said about Edo. He said, “The reverse seems to be the case in Edo State. As opposed to reconciliation, it is loud drums of war that has taken over the airwaves in Edo State. Comrade Oshiomhole has relocated to Edo State and taken over the APC campaign and the campaign is proceeding in a manner that suggests the Edo State Governorship election is an extension of the personal battle between the Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and Comrade Oshiomhole. “The APC campaign is personalised around Comrade Oshiomhole and the candidate of the party, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is an onlooker. The soundbite from the Edo APC campaign is so offensive to the point where Comrade Oshiomhole appears to be disowning almost every APC in Edo State between 2016 and now. “To that extent, it simply means Comrade Oshiomhole is disowning himself, which may be why he went on his knee begging Edo people for forgiveness.“
He advised party leaders to quickly step in to save the party from completely losing public trust.