Adeyinka Olaseni, Benin The All Progress Congress Media Campaign Council for the Edo Governorship election has accused the Peoples Democratic Party of colluding with a former senior INEC staff to rig the September 19 election in the state. This allegation was contained in a statement by the Chairman of the council, John Mayaki, on Monday. He alleged that the former INEC staff is a first-cousin to Governor Godwin Obaseki. Mayaki said, “As an upgrade to the server scam that failed the PDP in the 2019 General Election because it ignorantly went with the fraud without insight on the result collation process of INEC, the party of tax-collectors, having lost all hopes of winning the Edo election in a fair contest, are concluding plans on another rigging strategy.” In response, the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chris Nehikhare said, “Are governorship elections APC primaries where one man writes results? Is the Edo Government House now an INEC office? How on earth can a state government that has no control over INEC, police, DSS, NSCDC or military influence election results? This is laughable to say the least. “Indeed, Edo people and Nigerians know the party that is plotting to rig the election. They watch the video of Adams Oshiomhole talking about arresting some people. “The PDP also raised an alarm over the redeployment of a compromised NSCDC commandant to Edo State for the purpose of the election. We shall continue to expose their evil plots as time goes on.” In a related development, a group, Coalition of Christian Leaders, prayed for the APC candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu The Christian Association of Nigeria in the state, however, advised the electorates to vote wisely. The coalition which is made up of pastors of Christian organizations across denominations made public its endorsement in a communique signed by 14 eminent church leaders at a special session in Benin City. However, the state Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Bishop Oriname Oyonnude Kure, urged Christians to vote for integrity, prosperity and for the continuation of the good works. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 