Olaleye Aluko The Federal Government through the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission has said that over 10,000 Nigerians were evacuated from countries around the world from May to August 2020 as parts of efforts to protect them from the COVID-19 infection and its related fallouts. The commission’s Head of Department, Media and Public Relations, Mr Abdur-Rahman Balogun, stated this in an interview with our correspondent, noting that all the evacuees were taken through the compulsory 14-day isolation in line with COVID-19 protocols, upon their arrival in the country. The Federal Government, through the collaboration of the NIDCOM, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Nigerian embassies in the affected countries, began the evacuation flights on Wednesday, May 7. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, at the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja, had said those waiting to be evacuated were in China, United States, United Kingdom, South Africa, India, Canada, the Middle East countries, among others. “So, by God’s grace on Wednesday, May 7, we would start the process of repatriating our nationals from outside the country. There are about 4,000 Nigerians wishing to come back home. If we had our way, we would bring them all back immediately and all at once, but there are various constraints and the biggest constraint is where to quarantine them,” the minister had said. The Emirates, Ethiopian Airlines, and Air Peace were among the airlines used by the government for the evacuation which lasted for more than three months. In the case of the US, the Federal Government arranged for at least nine evacuation flights from the country. The last three flights were from Houston, Texas, and Newark, New Jersey, and took off on August 15, 19 and 20 to both Abuja and Lagos State. The government evacuated a large number of citizens from the country with over 2,000 Nigerians brought back home. In the case of China, where the pandemic started, the evacuation of Nigerians began in May with the latest arrival on August 24 from Guangzhou, China, to Lagos. Not left out were African countries as the government evacuated stranded Nigerians from Egypt, Mali, Morocco, among others. On July 30, the government evacuated 98 Nigerians, who had been stranded in Morocco since March 2020, due to the COVID-19 induced ban on international flights. The Nigerians were brought from King Mohammed V Airport, Casablanca, to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. Also on August 23, the government brought back 75 Nigerians from Egypt to Lagos State. The United Arab Emirates has been the largest country in the Middle East where Nigerians were evacuated from, with a total of about 4,984 brought back from Dubai. The NIDCOM’s spokesperson, Balogun, told our correspondent that more than 10,000 Nigerians had so far been evacuated from other countries. He said, “About 10,000 Nigerians have so far been evacuated since we started the process in April. We still have some coming in on Saturday (today). It is not our commission alone; it is a multi-agency, the Foreign Affairs and Aviation ministries, PTF and other stakeholders. “It is compulsory that all of them underwent the 14-day isolation when they got to Nigeria and during the process, the officials would collect their passports and after 16 days, they would return the passports and disperse them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 