THE disclosure by the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Affairs, Tolu Akande-Sadipe, that about 80,000 Nigerians are currently held as sex slaves, and in forced labour across the world, is utterly depressing. It is a wake-up call to the government at all levels to do all within their powers to eradicate trafficking in persons in the country. But it is a sad pointer to the desperation by a few Nigerian youths to escape the miserable existential realities and lack of opportunities at home evidenced by succumbing to the allure of grandeur abroad promised by opportunistic human trafficking syndicates. When an adult engages in a commercial sex act, such as prostitution, as a result of force, threats of force, fraud, coercion or any combination of such means, that person is a victim of trafficking, according to the US State Department. And when a child (under 18 years of age) is recruited, enticed, harboured, transported, provided, obtained, patronised, solicited, or maintained to perform a commercial sex act, proving force, fraud, or coercion is not necessary for the offence to be prosecuted as human trafficking. There are no exceptions to this rule: no cultural or socioeconomic rationalisations alter the fact that children who are exploited in prostitution are trafficking victims. Akande-Sadipe, who said the practice is rife in Lebanon, Mali and across the Middle East, lamented that young Nigerian girls were subjected to modern-day slavery, sexual exploitation and organ harvesting, among others. In June 2019, the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons raised the alarm that about 20,000 girls, mainly from Edo and Delta states, were engaged in prostitution in Mali, being a major transit centre for the human trafficking gangs. But stopping this ugly scourge that dents the image of the country, demands more than rhetoric. A lot is needed to undo the push factors that make young Nigerians opt for the torrid and dangerous journey of no return in strange and hostile lands. Top of which is the revival of the comatose economy, which the International Monetary Fund said would witness a deeper contraction of -5.4 per cent and not the -3.4 per cent it projected in April. The immediate consequence has been the rising poverty in the country, which the National Bureau of Statistics says currently stands at 40.09 per cent, representing 82.9 million persons. Critical to this is the resolution of the power conundrum wherein the sector has not witnessed any improvement of note to drive the economy despite the billions of dollars expended on it over the years. Evidently, a revived economy will create employment opportunities for the teeming youth population, a lack of which pushes many into criminality and such dangerous adventures that turn awry and compound the extant misery index in the country. These challenging times will push up the dangerous trade. The UN has recently reported, “Dramatic increases in unemployment and reductions in income, especially for low wage and informal sector workers, mean that significant numbers of people who were already vulnerable find themselves in even more precarious circumstances. From the garment industry, agriculture and farming, to manufacturing and domestic work, millions of people who were living in subsistence conditions have lost their wages. Those who continue to work in these sectors, where trafficking is frequently detected, may also face more exploitation because of the need to lower production costs due to economic difficulties, as well as due to less controls by the authorities.” The crime demands new legislation that would make sex trafficking a first-degree felony with a more severe penalty. The Trafficking in Persons Law Enforcement and Administration Act (amended in 2015), criminalises sex trafficking and labour trafficking and prescribes a minimum penalty of two years’ imprisonment and a fine of N250,000 for both sex and labour trafficking. The minimum penalty for sex trafficking was raised to seven years’ imprisonment and a fine of N1 million if the case involved a child victim. But a 2019 Trafficking in Persons Report says complicit government officials are not usually brought to justice despite consistent reports of their involvement in committing a variety of trafficking offences each year. There is also a need to intensify awareness creation and sensitisation programmes at the different levels of government targeting the vulnerable youth attracted to the vain promises of the good life in un-contoured territories by devious elements. Essentially, it is the ignorance of many victims to the fact that gold isn’t plucked on the streets of overseas towns and cities that leads them to such misadventures. The efforts of the Edo State Government on this in recent times, though commendable, should be scaled up to involve community-based and faith-based organisations. Aside from this, government should see to it that the syndicates responsible for procuring the young girls into appalling child sex trade and sex slavery overseas are unravelled. This is achievable if NAPTIP and the relevant security and intelligence agencies work in synergy to crack the rings operating in the country and bring the perpetrators to book. In 2016, after a six-month investigation, the Ventura County Sheriff’s Office in California, United States, through a multi-agency law enforcement team, uncovered what it called “a very sophisticated human trafficking network responsible for trafficking women for the purpose of commercial sex” involving five Chinese nationals, who were arrested, leading to the rescue of 28 others. This can be replicated in Nigeria. It requires political will and interagency collaboration. Effective consular services should be put at the disposal of Nigerians going through rough patches in foreign lands instead of being left in the lurch. Responsible countries rise to the plight of their nationals in foreign lands. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 