The Ita Faji tragedy is one that the residents of Lagos will always remember in years to come. On Wednesday 13, March 2019, a four-storey building at Ita Faji community in Lagos Island, the heart of the city’s commercial activities, collapsed leaving at least ten people including school children dead and more than 50 people injured. The collapsed building, residential block housing several apartments, as well as a school, tucked into the top floor, already bore cracks that bothered neighbours. However, the complaints about the state of the building were not addressed, Mohammed Muftau, a resident who witnessed the collapse, told the BBC. The Lagos State Building Control Agency also confirmed to the BBC that the building had been marked and listed for demolition. Incidents of building collapse are not an unusual occurrence in Nigeria; it is one of the many environmental hazards that have ravaged the country for years. In September 2014, 116 people died when a six-storey building collapsed in Lagos during a church service. Another incidence in 2016 killed more than 100 people when the roof of a church in Uyo, south of Nigeria, caved in. In 2018, there were at least five buildings collapsed between February and August in Lagos. Early this year, three people died, and nine got injured when a three storey-building collapsed while the occupants were sleeping, on Freeman Street, in the Lagos Island area of Lagos in July. In less than 24 hours after that incident, another building that housed nine shops and 15 rooms at Ijegun road, Ikotun also collapsed. Most of these collapses have been attributed to the use of sub-standard building materials and complete disregard for global best building codes. Regardless, the effect of these tragedies on the wellbeing of the victims and their loved ones is usually protracted. Grievous losses which include lives of loved ones and valuable assets, leave many uncertain of the future, and this is further underpinned by the inability to recover from the financial losses incurred. Unfortunately, the majority of people who have been victims of building collapse have little or no recovery plan in place. Tragedies occur quite suddenly, and without the right property and personal insurance for the property owners and residents, respectively, it is a case of double misfortune for both parties. In an attempt to safeguard the physical environment and ultimately guarantee the wellbeing and safety of Lagosians, the Lagos State Government through the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development announced on Friday, 24 July that they had commenced discussions with stakeholders on the need for a smooth and successful implementation of the Building Insurance Certificate requirement stipulated for buildings above two floors. This compulsory building insurance requirement compels owners of buildings above two floors to submit a Certificate of Insurance to the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA). With this exemplary measure in place, it is expected that the needless carnage from incessant building collapse will be curtailed through self-censorship, state control machinery and the demand for standardization and compliance with best practices from insurance companies. As an aspiring property owner or one currently in the building stages, you need to take proactive measures in securing the future of the building against unforeseen circumstances. The right Insurance will take care of third-party injuries that could occur as a result of building collapse, or any other disaster that could affect your building. It will also provide a cover for injuries sustained by not only you but every other person on your property. This is where Leadway Assurance company, a foremost insurer proffering innovative solutions to risk management for five decades comes in. Leadway’s Builders’ Liability insurance is one of the many range of innovative products the company offers. It is designed for all buildings more than two floors under construction and it provides cover for site workers or members of the public who dies or gets injured in a collapsed construction work, and also takes care of damage to third party property. With an insurance product like this in place, you will have peace of mind while your construction is in works. The best gift you can offer your property is a gift of insurance. Nothing beats it! But what is important to note is that you are also complying with the relevant laws and statutes as a responsible citizen. Make the smartest decision today, call our professional advisors for additional information on Leadway’s property insurance via our virtual communication channels – 08129997015, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from an experienced insurance advisor by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me