Joseph Olaoluwa Bristow Helicopters on Tuesday announced a decision to sack 100 pilots and engineers over the next few weeks. This is coming as the industrial strike action embarked by its workers under the aegis of the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers entered day two. The aggrieved pilots and engineers are seeking equitable salary remuneration. The airline blamed the impact of COVID-19 in the sector for the decision to sack the workers. A statement titled ‘Bristow Restructures Nigeria Operations’ emailed to our correspondent by a public relations firm, Topcom, representing the airline, Topcom, announced the decision. The statement read, “The spread of the COVID-19 virus has severely impacted all sectors in the aviation industry including our market, which primarily serves the Nigerian oil and gas sector.  In addition, the ongoing downturn in the global oil and gas market continues to influence and determine the demand for our services. “The combined effects of these ‘arisings’ have resulted in very significant reductions to our business particularly a reduction in the number of contracted aircraft in Nigeria. “As a result, the company must now restructure all aspects of its business model (both rotary and fixed wing), including an extensive review of its operations and we continue to drive efficiencies, but with zero compromise to safety and our core values. “One of these measures includes the right-sizing of the business to ensure that the company has the optimal level of personnel to continue the safe delivery of its services to its clients, whilst allowing the appropriate capacity for future growth. “Accordingly, and with much regret, the company has taken the very difficult decision to release over 100 pilots and engineers (both national and expatriates) over the next couple of weeks.” The airline noted that the decision was difficult but final. It said those to be affected by the decision would be paid redundancy packages after an agreement must have been reached with the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers. The National Vice President of NAAPE, Mr Yakubu Dukas, also confirmed the development, vowing to fight the decision. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 