Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan The Oyo State Governor, Mr Seyi Makinde, has decsribed education as a tool for economic recovery and  development of any society. The governor said this in Ibadan on Sunday during the dedication of the Global Mission Centre and Global Mission Plaza, which were named after the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch  Adeboye, and the  Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, respectively. The two facilities were built by the Sword of the Spirit Ministries, under the leadership of Bishop Francis Oke. Makinde, according to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa, said the state’s economic recovery programme could conveniently rest on a properly fixed education sector. He said,  “I am always excited when I get invitations to speak at events that have to do with education. If I were told to choose one of the four pillars of our administration and which one to use to build the economic recovery of Oyo State, I will most likely choose education as the foremost. An educated person cannot be held down. “A lot of people may not know, but mission schools have had a long history in Oyo State. One of the mission schools was built here in Oyo State over 70 years ago. So, these days, some people think that the work of building schools should be left only to the government. “I will always say that the government can only do so much. Development is a collective responsibility. “The main function of the government is to make and enforce laws that will make the lives of the citizens better. “As we fellowship together, let us not forget the importance of our roles as citizens. We should not rest on our oars.” The governor also Oke  for his contributions towards educational development in the state. Governor Emmanuel also lauded Bishop Oke for having a huge positive impact in his life and many others. Adeboye had earlier in his sermon called on people to believe in God and seek his guidance always, while also commending Bishop Oke for being steadfast in spreading the gospel of Christ. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  