Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, on Wednesday said heavy rainfall remained one of the challenges being faced by security agents who are battling bandits in the North-West and North Central. Masari spoke in an interview with State House correspondents after a meeting he held with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Katsina, the home state of the President, is one of the states in the North West currently under the siege of bandits. The governor had recently lamented the insufficiency of police officers and security operatives to challenge the attacks by bandits. Speaking at a luncheon organised by the Nigerian Air Force to celebrate the Eid-El-Kabir with frontline troops in Katsina, he had alleged that bandits have become emboldened because of insufficient security operatives to tackle security challenges. Also speaking on Wednesday, Masari said security agents have been having difficulties in moving heavy military equipment during the rainy season because of the soft nature of the soil in the forests where the bandits are. He, however, expressed optimism that the challenge would be surmounted. The governor said, “North-Western part of the country where these bandits are, and the North Central are vast forest areas and unfriendly terrains. “So, essentially now during rainy season, moving with heavy military equipment can be very challenging because the soil is soft and the rains are heavy. “But it is doable. No situation is impossible especially to a willing and determined mind. “I do believe that we can conquer these bandits and stop them from hibernating into something else.” Masari said over 2,000 military men were currently in Katsina for their annual super camp as a way of sending signals to the bandits that the military is ready and willing to deal with the situation. “To control the situation by all means is a task that must be done because we cannot allow the situation in the North-West develop like it has done in the North-East,” he added.