Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Minister of Defence, Maj Gen. Bashir Salihi Magashi(retd.), has held a meeting with the leadership of military veteran groups in Abuja over their agitation for security debarment allowance. The ex-military officers had threatened a nationwide protest following the refusal of the government to include them in the list of beneficiaries. But Magashi during the meeting with the leadership of the Nigerian Legion, Veterans Federation of Nigeria, Coalition of Concerned Veterans and the Retired Army, Navy and Airforce Officers in Abuja, informed them that they were not entitled to the debarment allowance because the law on the payment was not retroactive. The veterans were represented by the General Secretary, Nigerian Legion, Group Capt. Kayode Abe (retd.) and the Spokesperson for the Coalition of the Concerned Veterans, Abiodun Durowaye. According to a statement on Saturday by the media assistant to the defence minister, Mohammed Abdulkadiri, Magashi, however, directed the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin to address other issues presented by the veterans. These include the need to address the wide gap between the pensions of the Brigadier- Generals and the Major-Generals and  incremental  issue as a result of the increase in the minimum wage. Others include the issue of restricted  health insurance and the need to institute burial support for the military veterans. The statement read, “The bone of contention according to the veterans is that they were unjustifiably excluded from the payment of the Security Debarment Allowance aimed at preventing retired personnel from using the knowledge and skills acquired while in the service against the state. “While making an appeal for inclusion in the payment of the SDA, they argued that they too met the required criteria to be paid having acquired knowledge and skills while in the service. “The Minister of Defence, who is also a bonafide member of the veterans, said the issue  of SDA shouldn’t be a reason to protest pointing out that the provision in the Manual of the Financial Administration for the Armed Forces is clear.” While briefing  the meeting, the Chief of Account and  Budget, Defence  Headquarters, Maj. Gen.  Jakko recalled that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) signed and approved SDA on the February 24, 2018 but backdated the policy to take effect from   November 9, 2017 payable to all personnel on retirement, noting that the policy did not cover the agitating veterans who retired before this date.