Sodiq Oyeleke The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, has suggested a replacement for the Big Brother Naija reality show. While playing host to members of the National Youth Council of Nigeria in his palace at Ile Ife, Osun, the monarch criticised the #BBNaija show. He said the reality show was “misrepresenting the goodness and integrity of the Nigerian youths”. As a replacement, he suggested a reality show that would project the country’s values, cultures, and traditions. He suggested that the new show could be tagged “The Big Nigeria Reality Show”. “The proposed show will be structured in a way that young professionals, talented individuals, and others across several fields of endeavour will be showcased and helped to reach their peak. READ ALSO: We’ll impeach Obaseki if he flouts laws, Edo Assembly faction boasts “This would help the participants and also help viewers to have access to people that can be seen as role models,” Ooni added. The royal father, who stressed the need for participation of more youths in leadership, lamented that the youths have misplaced their priorities and must redress it as a matter of urgent public importance. A statement from the Ooni’s media aide, Moses Olafare, quoted the monarch as saying, “Nigerian youths are fond of accusing and abusing our leaders, stop abusing them contribute your own quota. Let’s wear our thinking caps and begin to act like the real future leaders that we are. “In the last general election, the total number of vote cast was around 27 million while over 170 million people voted during the 2019 Big Brother Naija reality show. “This is a practical reality of who Nigerian youths are and where our priorities lie as Nigerians. “The funny side in all of these is that we still go to bed, have a good sleep, and wake up with the hope to meet a Nigeria we didn’t create. “Unfortunately, every time I talk about this kind of attitude, everyone just laughs and moves on. What kind of nation are we building? “When people say this country, or what kind of country is this, they are indirectly saying these people – it is the people that make a country; so what kind of Nigerian youths are we?” Earlier in his address, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, who was represented by Dr Mariam Abdullahi, a director in the ministry, explained that the youths have major roles to play in the country’s development. “As a government, we will keep ensuring that we equip our youths towards prosperity,” the minister added.  Representing Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun at the event, the state’s Commissioner for Youths and Sports, Mr Yemi Lawal, explained that the youths have a lot to learn from elders towards reaching their goals. “As much as we youths are important, let us be humble enough to learn from our elders because they were once like us. Humility, persistence, and patience is the key and we must be upright in our dealings,” he said. The President of the National Youth Council of Nigeria, Mr. Sara-Igbe Sukubo, thanked the Ooni for what he described as an unthinkable warm reception for the youths. “We have heard your kind words of wisdom and I want to assure you on behalf of the teeming Nigerian youths that we will put them into action. “Fellow Nigerian youths, as we reflect on youth engagement for global action today, let us realize that a new era of opportunities and responsibilities is now upon us. “Today’s youths are now being called upon to rise as practical stakeholders in governance and development. Let us rise to this challenge,” Sukubo said. The youths at the occasion announced Ooni Ogunwusi as the ”Royal Father of Nigerian Youths”, in recognition and appreciation of his immeasurable commitment towards youth development in the country.