Patrick Odey, Uyo The Akwa Ibom State Police Command on Tuesday paraded 17 suspects in connection with cultism and cult-related killings in Oruk Anam Local Government Area of the state. The suspects were apprehended in a joint operation by operatives of the Anti-Cultism Unit and the Oruk Anam Police Division after they stormed their hideouts. The state Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, at a media briefing in the command’s headquarters, Ikot Akpan-Abia, Uyo, said an Indian hemp farm was also discovered and a suspected cultist’s corpse was recovered during the operation. He said, “On August 8, 2020, at about 5.20pm, following a distress call that some cultists invaded Inen Ikot Obio Idang village in the Oruk Anam Local Government Area, operatives of the LG division proceeded to the scene, where the corpse of one Uffot Benson Offong, a suspected cultist, was recovered. “On August 9, at about 7.15 pm, the police stormed the hideouts of the suspected cultists and arrested 17 fingered in the incident.” Edgal said two bank armed robbery suspects were also arrested, including a pastor, who allegedly defiled a 13-year-old girl He said the robbery suspects, who specialised in trailing bank customers after withdrawals, were arrested by operatives of the Anti-Narcotic Squad of the command after credible intelligence. The CP identified the suspects as Frank Ichikpro, 48, and Ifeanyi Esegue, 39. “On January 20, 2020, the suspects trailed one Anthony John from the bank where his car was parked at Nteps Supermarket and broke into the said car with a master key and stole the sum of N1.5m. “The suspects confessed to membership of a four-man gang operating in Highlander and Lexus sport utility vehicles, while trailing their victims. Exhibits recovered from the suspects included one Highlander SUV, with number plate, KRD 361 FX; a sum of N160,000; and a master key. “Based on complaints, detectives of Mkpat Enin LGA division apprehended one Pastor Mfon Lazarus Etukudo, aged 51, who is the pastor of a new generation church at Ikot Ekput village in the Mkpat Enin LGA for defiling a 13-year-old girl. “Investigation revealed that the pastor, at about 11.15am, waylaid and dragged the victim into his bedroom located on the church premises and had unlawful carnal knowledge of her,” Edgal added. The commissioner, who restated the command’s determination to sustain the fight against crime and criminality in the state, called on members of the public to always volunteer information to the police. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     