Godwin Isenyo and James Abraham Troops of Operation Safe Haven in charge of maintaining peace in Plateau State, parts of Bauchi and Southern Kaduna on Monday said eight persons were arrested in connection with the killings in Southern Kaduna. The Commander of the OPSH, Sector 7, Col. David Nwankonobi, disclosed this while addressing journalists at the Kafanchan headquarters of the sector. He said the suspects were arrested with various weapons, adding that during their rescue operation, the troops also discovered the corpse of one of the members of the militia said to have carried out the last attack on Southern Kaduna communities The names of the suspects were given as  Abubakar Ali, Ali Amadu, Bawa Idi, Umar Dikko, Mohammed Ibrahim, Garba Damon’s and William Barnabas and Adamu Joseph. “We also have information on the identity of some of the hoodlums that carried out the last attack,” Nwankonobi added. The PUNCH had reported that about 33 persons were killed between Wednesday and Thursday last week after gunmen attacked some communities in Zango Kataf Local Government Area of the state. S’Kaduna IDPs get packages Meanwhile,  a faith-based organisation, ‘To the Uttermost Parts of Earth Ministry’, Zaria in Kaduna State has donated relief materials to five Internally Displaced Persons’ camps in Southern Kaduna following persistent attacks, which had displaced many in the area. The Christian group distributed the reliefs materials, comprising 60 bags of rice, 60 bags of beans, 75 bags of maize, 50 cartons of Spaghetti, 10 bags of salts as well as 15 cartons of seasoning to five local government areas where the camps are located. Benefitting LGAs are Kajuru, Kaura, Kauru, Jema’a and Zango-Kataf. Representative of the faith-based group with headquarters in Lagos, Mrs Hannatu Ndibechukwu, at the Mercy IDPs Camp, Zonkwa in Zango-Kataf on Friday, said the organisation was in pains as a result of the unending attacks on the people and decided to touch the lives of the needy in the various camps. Coordinator of the Mercy IDP camp, Rev. Gambo Waziri, decried the state government’s nonchalant attitude towards the suffering internally displaced persons at the camp. He said with the latest attack, the camp had surged to over 3,000 displaced persons. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 