Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin The Association of Resident Doctors, University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital Chapter on Tuesday commenced a three-day warning strike over an alleged assault of one of its members by the family of a patient. Dr Lanre Olosunde, President of ARD-UITH, who disclosed this to Journalists in Ilorin said the attacked doctor sustained a physical and psychological injury. He explained that such an assault could have caused more damaging injuries or even resulted in the death of the doctor. He observed that this is not the first time such would happen, adding that the ARD member was given a blow in the chest. “The assailant also issued a threat to mobilise thugs from town to stage another attack on the staff of the Accident and Emergency unit,” he said. Olosunde stated that the assault on healthcare workers is on the increase and reiterated that there have been no appreciable security measures taken to protect them and forestall further breaches in the hospital. He added that especially with the threat of a second attack on the staff at the Accident and Emergency unit as issued by the assailants. “The crowd control at the Accident and Emergency Unit and at other service points is still grossly poor, as the potential of causing similar security breaches in the future and also facilitate the hospital spread of infections. “The unavailability of required Personal Protective Equipment for the protection of doctors at the A&E was identified as a factor that would continue to fuel delays in the delivery of emergency services and hence increase perceived neglect of patients and their relatives,” he said. He said that the police officers and other security personnel at UITH have resorted to deliberately putting the blame on the doctors that were assaulted rather than objectively investigating this matter and make necessary arrests. The ARD-UITH President explained that the warning strike is not to punish patients but that it is hoped that necessary safety measures for members would be put in place by the hospital. He said the association had resolved that the management of the hospital must ensure the assailant is arrested and prosecuted. “The current PPE distribution system at UITH be reviewed to ensure they are readily available at every service point and especially emergency care service point. “The UITH should release an official public statement with regards to this occurrence to give proper orientation to the general public on the formal ways available to channel complaints about hospital services and a warning to the public of the grave repercussions if they assaulted any health care workers,” he said.