Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan A guard, Daniel Amanda, has been arrested by police in Oyo State for allegedly raping a stranded housewife identified only as Ola (not real name). The 23-year-old woman was said to have travelled to Lagos and returned to Ibadan at night but unable to get vehicle to take her home because of the curfew imposed to curb further spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The woman was said to have made several efforts to find a safe place to spend the night but all her efforts proved abortive. Her husband was said to have called her on the phone and asked her to call one of his friends living close to the area but she couldn’t get through to him on the phone. The woman became confused as it dawned on her that she might have to sleep by the roadside at around 1am. Frightened by the reality, she started to pace up and down the road, the 23-year-old was said to have been accosted later by the security guard. The woman reportedly told the security guard her plight and the man offered to take her to his home to sleep till dawn. The 25-year-old guard, it was gathered, overpowered the woman while they were in his room and raped her. The victim reportedly narrated her experience to her husband and the matter was reported to the police which led to the suspect’s arrest. The Commissioner of Police in Oyo State, Nwachukwu Enwonwu, while commenting on the case, said the suspect had confessed to the crime. The CP said, “ On July 28, 2020 at about 9:30pm, the woman returned from Lagos State but couldn’t get to her house because of the curfew imposed by Oyo State Government to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “She called her husband to let him know that she could not get home and the husband told her to call his friend living around Akobo, Akala Roundabout, Ibadan. She called but could not get through to him, so she met a security guard around the area named Daniel Amanda, who agreed to render assistance to her by taking her to his home around 1:30am on July 29. “Daniel consequently used the opportunity to forcefully have unlawful carnal knowledge of her. This was without her consent and it happened inside his room on the pretence of helping her. The suspect had made confessional statement to that effect.” The CP also said the command had also arrested another security guard, Yemi Akinkunmi, for allegedly defiling an eight-year-old girl. The 52-year-old was also said to have defiled his victim in his room. The commissioner of police said, “ On July 25 at about 8am,one Yemi Akinkunmi, aged 52 of E8/227 Oke Ofa Baba Isale area of Ibadan returned from his security work and gave the victim (name withheld) and four other kids the food he brought home. “Sequel to this, the kids went out of his room to play but the suspect later called the victim and pretended as if he wanted to send her on an errand. Consequently, he asked the girl to sleep on his bed and forcefully had carnal knowledge of her.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 