Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Human Rights, Liberty Access & Peace Defenders Foundation has petitioned the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, over the attempted abduction and threat to the life of The PUNCH’s correspondent in Ebonyi State, Edward Nnachi. The petition was also sent to Amnesty International, the Police Service Commission, the Minister of Interior and the National Human Rights Commission. In the petition titled: ‘Human rights abuses, threats to the life of Edward Nnachi and other journalists in Ebonyi State by agents purportedly working for the Ebonyi State Government and a demand for thorough investigation into the matter in the interest of justice’, the group urged the IGP to unearth the truth about the human rights abuse on journalists and media practitioners in the state. A suspected member of the Ebonyi State Neighborhood Security Watch had on Thursday, July 23, 2020, around 6.30pm, attempted to abduct Nnachi at the popular Udensi roundabout, Abakaliki, where he was about to board a tricycle home after his daily activities, but was prevented from doing so by men of the Nigeria Police on patrol. On interrogation, the suspect said he was acting on orders  from above. It was gathered that the policemen were about to whisk the suspect away in their van as he could not provide an identity card to prove that he was a member of the state’s Neighbourhood Watch. But an aide to the governor was said to have surfaced at the scene to intervene and asked the policemen to release the suspect, which they did. HURIDE in its petition alleged that there were threats to Nnachi’s life by agents of the state government and urged the IG to look into the incident and unmask the persons behind it. The petition read in part, “The life of Mr Edward Nnachi is not only being threatened by these agents of darkness, but also those of his family for reporting the dilapidated state of Ezzagu community in the Ishielu Local Government Area of the Ebonyi State.” “The security agencies in the state seem to be helpless as none of the incidents reported to them saw the light of the day and we have it on strong conviction that this, too, may go the same way and as such, we implore your office to come to the aid of Ebonyi State, Mr Nnachi and other media practitioners.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com