PETER DADA The African Democratic Party has alleged an attack on some of its members during the local government election held in Ondo State on Saturday. The party, which accused the ruling All Progressives Congress of sponsoring the attack, alleged that some thugs prevented its members from voting in some units in Ondo West Local Government Area of the state. The ADC alleged the snatching of ballot boxes and shootings in units 6, 7 and 26 of ward 7 to scare the voters. The state chairman of the party, Pastor Adegoke Olademiji, alleged that their party members were threatened and injured by the hoodlums. He also alleged unprofessional conduct by policemen, who he accused of protecting the hoodlums while snatching the ballots boxes, saying men of the state police command were unable to check the activities of the political thugs. “We are calling on all lovers of democracy to unite against the brazen attack on Nigeria’s democracy. Such an assault is akin to the destruction of human rights and should not be allowed to stand,” he said. The Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mr Alex Kalejaiye, said the allegation was untrue, adding that members of the party were not involvde in any violence during the election. He said, “Our members did not involve themselves in any act of violence in the election and the election was peaceful so the allegation is untrue.” However, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Tee-Leo Ikoro, said the election was violence-free and that the allegation against the police was untrue. Meanwhile, reactions have trailed the conduct of the local government election, which was conducted in the various units and wards across the 18 council areas of the state. The voting commenced as scheduled immediately after the accreditation at the polling centres in some areas visited at about 8am, but election materials arrived as late as 12 noon in other units. Speaking on the exercise, the Social Democratic Party condemned the conduct of the exercise, saying the exercise had exposed the low popularity level of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in the state.    ,, Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 