Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe An advertising agent, Olalekan Olakitan, has urged the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to investigate the role some personnel at the Ogun State Police Command Headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, and the force headquarters in Abuja, played in allegedly suppressing a complaint of armed robbery he made and protecting the suspects. PUNCH Metro had reported that Olakitan was attacked at gunpoint and dispossessed of his valuables by four men on August 21, 2018, around Iyana-Ilogbo area of Ogun State, while on his way home. According to him, operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad were alerted to the incident, but before they could get to the scene, the suspects had fled. The victim, who was hospitalised after the incident, wrote a petition dated August 24, 2018, to the Zonal Intervention Squad, Zone 2 Command, Obada-Oko, Ogun State, which was received on August 30, 2018. Upon the receipt of the petition, the command reportedly commenced investigation into the incident and the suspects were arrested with the pump action rifle that they allegedly used to rob the victim. However, Olakitan said while the investigation was ongoing, family members of the suspects and a retired Divisional Police Officer, who claimed to have allegedly sold the gun to the suspects, mounted pressure on him to drop the case. The victim, who noted that the pressure from the suspects’ families turned to threats to his life and family, said he told the Investigating Police Officer to release the suspects on bail pending when he would be discharged from hospital. According to Olakitan, upon their release, the suspects teamed up with some police personnel at Eleweran to compromise the investigation by accusing him of impersonation for which he was charged. Olakitan added that while the case was going on in court, he petitioned the office of the IG, the Police Service Commission and the Force Public Relations Officer, adding that the latter responded and promised to investigate the matter. The victim further alleged that when one Inspector Atama Francis from the force headquarters contacted him on the matter, he requested money. Olakitan, in a fresh petition to the IG through his lawyer, Kolade Ilesanmi, stated that since the incident happened and the suspects were released, his life had been in danger as he could no longer stay in his apartment. He appealed to the IG to set up a special investigative panel to probe the matter with a view to bringing the suspects and the errant cops to justice. The petition read in part, “Since the occurrence of the armed robbery incident, the release of the criminal offenders from police custody, the filing of a trumped-up charge against our client and his malicious prosecution and the frustration of his petition to the police force headquarters, our client and members of his family have been in danger. “They have fled their home and visit the same sparingly in the belief that they could be killed by the so-called powerful criminals they are insisting should be brought to justice. “In the process, their fundamental rights to life, liberty, privacy and freedom of movement, which are guaranteed by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, have been threatened and constrained due to the unfortunate resolve of the listed men and officers of the Nigeria Police Force to side with criminal suspects against our client, a Nigerian, who deserves the full protection of the law. “We, hereby, demand on behalf of our client that you constitute a special Inspector-General of Police investigation team from the force headquarters to take over this case and comprehensively investigate same with a view to not only bringing the criminal offenders, who robbed our client to justice, but also bringing the errant officers of the Nigeria Police Force to justice “That the items stolen from our client on the day of the robbery by the criminal offenders be recovered from them and returned to our client. The money paid to Inspector Francis Atama and used in hosting him and his team in their fruitless visit to Lagos and Ogun states should also be recovered and returned to our client. “Our client reposed so much trust and confidence in the police, hence his repeated petitions to the various offices of the Nigeria Police Force. The trust and confidence have waned considerably. However, they can be revived by swift action from you.” The Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, had stated then that detailed investigation had commenced into the matter, adding that there were a lot of conflicting information at the force’s disposal, which slowed down the investigation, However, when Mba was contacted by our correspondent on Tuesday and Wednesday, his telephone indicated that it was switched off. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  