Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt A mother of four, Precious Caleb, has accused a hospital in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, of stealing one of her twin babies after she was delivered of the two kids at the facility, urging them to return the second child. Caleb, while speaking to our correspondent in Port Harcourt on Thursday, said the result of a scan she ran at the said hospital showed that it was twin, but alleged that she was neither shown the scan result nor shown the sexes of the twin. She expressed surprised that the hospital later put a call across to her husband that she gave birth to only one baby (a boy), whereas she saw two of her babies after she was delivered of them. “From the hospital I went to deliver, I ran a scan there and the result showed it is twin. In the operation room, I saw the two babies. “But they didn’t even show me the sex of the babies. All of a sudden, they called my husband and said it was only one baby and a boy. Ever since I did that scan, they refuse to give me the result of the scan even when I demanded for it,” Caleb said. The mother of four expressed sadness with the manner the police was handling the case, two months after she had reported the matter. She appealed to the state police command to help her retrieve the second child. “We took the matter to the police station at Rumuokpakani (Obio/Akpor LGA) where the police said they had the scan result which they showed my husband. But the policeman still refused to give it to us. “From there, we moved it (the matter) to State Criminal Investigation Department because we thought the division could not handle it. At the SCID, I noticed some kind of hanky-panky. This has led me to this point where I am,” she said. The State Police command, Nnamdi Omoni, however, advised Caleb to be patient, saying, “Investigation cannot be done at her own pace. It is at the pace of the team doing the investigation because they have a lot of things to do in the circumstance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   