Child and Public Health Physician
roayad@yahoo.com
08037202050 Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver that can cause a range of health problems and can be fatal. There are five main strains of the hepatitis virus, referred to as types A, B, C, D and E. While they all cause liver disease, they differ in important ways including modes of transmission, severity of the illness, geographical distribution and prevention methods. In particular, types B and C lead to chronic disease in hundreds of millions of people and, together, are the most common cause of liver cirrhosis, cancer and viral hepatitis-related deaths. Hepatitis B is called a “silent infection” because most people do not have any symptoms when they are first infected. Thus, they can unknowingly pass the virus to others and continue the silent spread of hepatitis B. Testing is the only way to know for sure if you are infected. A simple hepatitis B blood test can easily diagnose whether or not you have an infection. Symptoms Laboratory tests These includes abdominal scan, Liver function tests (LFT), Hepatisis B Panel and HBV (DNA) viral load.  In some cases, the laboratory test results may show a very high viral load. Treatment The laboratory test results may show a very high viral load. In these cases, the physician may recommend an oral antiviral drug. The goal of treatment is to prevent complications of  liver like liver  cirrhosis and cancer Prevention via vaccination Hepatitis B vaccine is genetically modified. The hepatitis B vaccine is also known as the first “anti-cancer” vaccine because it prevents hepatitis B, the leading cause of liver cancer worldwide .It takes only a few shots to  get  protect ed and the loved ones against hepatitis B for a lifetime. The vaccine is administered intramuscularly: Infants: anterolateral thigh muscle, its never given in the buttocks (associated with decreased immunogenicity and risk of nerve damage).  Children and adults: deltoid muscle. First shot – At any given time called Day 0 Second Shot – One month (or 28 days) after the 1st Third Shot – six months Pregnancy and hepatitis B Babies born to a mother with hepatitis B have a greater than 90% chance of developing chronic hepatitis B if they are not properly treated at birth. It is imperative for pregnant women to know their hepatitis B status in order to prevent passing the virus on to their newborn baby during delivery. If your doctor is aware that you have hepatitis B, he or she can make arrangements to have the proper medications in the delivery room to prevent your baby from being infected. All pregnant women are routinely tested for hepatitis B. If you are pregnant, be sure your doctor tests you for hepatitis B before your baby is born, ideally as early as possible during the first trimester. If you test positive for hepatitis B, then your newborn must be given two shots immediately in the delivery room: first dose of the hepatitis B vaccine, one dose of the Hepatitis B Immune Globulin (HBIG within the  first 12 hours of birth). If these two medications are given correctly, a newborn has more than a 90% chance of being protected against a lifelong hepatitis B infection. You must make sure your baby receives the remaining shots in the series according to schedule to ensure complete protection. Hepatitis b virus infection and breastfeeding Even before the availability of hepatitis B vaccine,  HBV transmission through breastfeeding was not reported. All infants born to HBV-infected mothers should receive hepatitis B immune globulin and the first dose of hepatitis B vaccine within 12 hours of birth before breastfeeding. The second dose of vaccine should be given at aged 6 weeks, and the third and fourth  dose at aged  10 and 14 weeks respectively . However, there is no need to delay breastfeeding until the infant is fully immunized. All mothers who breastfeed should take good care of their nipples to avoid cracking and bleeding as the virus can be transmitted through such bleeding nipples. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 