The Ember Months are here (the last four months in the year that end with “…ember”), and the annual anticipation of a yuletide holiday is officially declared open. What would be the look and feel of the Ember Months in COVID-19 pandemic era? Already, following a global shutdown to fight the rapid spread of the pandemic, people were denied the usual summer holiday worldwide, and it is evident that they are ‘holiday starved’. But it seems there is good news to herald these crucial months ahead. Firstly, Nigerians were greeted with news in August about the resumption of international flights starting from the 5th of September 2020, beginning with Lagos and Abuja. In reopening routes, albeit at significantly reduced capacity, there is a clearer signal that more countries are ready to open their borders to welcome exciting holiday makers as they struggle to revive their COVID-19 hit tourism industry. There is a silver lining that the year will wrap in a yuletide cheer, as it is a tradition for the human race. Secondly, the willingness to open international borders is also indicative of a world that is seeing the flattening of the curve on the pandemic. However, these exciting news must be approached with caution before getting on that flight beyond national shores. While planning your next trip, you must note that it has now become imperative for everyone to be fully intimated with Coronavirus regulations operating at home or your intended country of destination. Airline operators are also enforcing these constantly changing regulations, thus making them a necessary travel requirement right from your take-off point. Though relatively simple, these guidelines will become as important as your passport and travel permits for a safe trip and accommodation at foreign destinations. They must be strictly adhered to as safety precautions for the sake of your health and the wellbeing of others. The pandemic paralysed many economies globally, leaving in its wake, financial setbacks for businesses and individuals alike. Although governments around the world are trying to cushion the effects with bailout programmes, the impact has necessitated corporate and individual lifestyle changes to sail through these critical times. Currently, markets are changing worldwide with global currencies experiencing fluctuations, hence the need to prepare to make informed and adequate financial decisions for your trip and for whatever the emerging era might bring. Travelling during the pandemic will come with newer risks; the peril associated with contracting the virus along with other possible health incidents, loss of valuables and even legal issues. Given these likelihoods, no one should be travelling without comprehensive travel insurance. It has become one of the most crucial travel essentials that smarter travellers have on their checklist. Most importantly, in acquiring a travel insurance plan, you need an insurer that offers cover on medical, financial, and other losses that could be incurred while travelling outside the country of residence. Leadway Assurance with its market leadership, fifty years’ experience, and tailor-designed products, has made your decision simple. The Leadway Assurance travel insurance policy is a premium cover that will adequately manage the risks you might face during your next trip. The plan covers recipients against risks such as the frustration of a cancelled flight and misplaced luggage in transit, among other unforeseen scenarios. It could also be very beneficial if the recipient were to take ill or have an accident while on a trip, Leadway Assurance has international partners that would respond swiftly at no cost to you. They are also available for emergency evacuation of a victim or flying over a loved-one who may have to join the affected person. That is not all; the Travel Gold Plan will provide a Legal cover for recipients, such that if you happen to have legal issues during your trip, Leadway Assurance will provide you with a Lawyer. Amazing right? Make the smartest decision today, call our professional advisors for additional information on Leadway’s travel insurance via our virtual communication channels – 08134892145, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from an experienced insurance advisor by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me