John Alechenu, Friday Olokor and  Adelani Adepegba political parties have trade blames, while also asking the Nigeria Police Force not to abdicate its responsibilities to the people of Edo and Ondo states as they prepare to go to the polls to elect their governors on September 19 and October 10 respectively. They spoke after the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, raised the alarm over alleged arming and movement of thugs by politicians in preparation for the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states. The polls are scheduled to hold on September 19 and October 10, 2020, respectively. The IG stated that the Election Security Threat Assessment Reports submitted by the Commissioners of Police from both states in a meeting held on August 25 also revealed use of inciting statements during political campaigns, and a high likelihood of violence and possible cross-attack by political opponents. He said the politicians also planned to use misinformation and disinformation, “aimed at heating up the polity and delegitimising government institutions involved in the electoral processes.” The IG, therefore, warned politicians and their supporters to conduct themselves properly, play by the rules and steer clear of tendencies capable of undermining the electoral process in the two states. This was contained in a statement in Abuja on Sunday by the Force spokesman, DCP Frank Mba, titled, ‘Conduct yourselves and play by the rules: IGP warns Edo and Ondo politicians.’ The IG ordered the CPs in the two states to rejig their preparations for the elections and address the threats and emerging trends as contained in the security report. “The IGP, however, warns the politicians and their supporters in Edo and Ondo states that the Force would not hesitate to bring the full weight of the law on anyone or group, irrespective of status,  that may want to sabotage the security arrangement being emplaced for the elections,” the statement further said. But the Peoples Democratic Party, through its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Sunday challenged the police to name and arrest those arming thugs for the elections. Ologbondiyan, who spoke on the telephone, said, “For us in the PDP we are asking the IGP and his men to invite for questioning the APC governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who was seen and heard in a video mobilising thugs for use in the Edo State election. “Ize-Iyamu has been moving around no one has questioned him. In case the IGP is not aware, Nigerians are aware that the former Ondo State Chairman of the APC, Isaacs Kekemeke threatening violence, he too is working free, no one has questioned him. “It is also on record that the daylight robbery of our victory in Osun State happened under the watch of the police. Our advice to the police is to use these elections in Edo and Ondo State to redeem its image. Let it also be known that the people of the two states will resist any attempt to cause violence with a view to forcing a postponement of the election to give the APC undue advantage.” Speaking in a similar vein, the National Publicity Secretary of the Action Democratic Party, Adelaja Adeoye, said, “The police should not abdicate this responsibility; there is this mistrust between the police and the people as we have seen in the past because they’ve been used openly to snatch ballot boxes like we saw in Kogi. Many people cannot actually differentiate between the police and the thugs that the IGP is alleging are being armed by politicians. “The IGP coming out to raise the alarm is not the solution to what we have on the ground. I am sure the IGP is going to deploy not less than 20,000 policemen to Edo. There should be no stories, before the election they should move into the state and nip this situation in the bud.” When contacted, the deputy spokesperson for the APC campaign council for the Edo Governorship Election, Patrick Obahiagbon said, “It’s of delight to us in the APC, that the police hierarchy is becoming alarmed to the weaponisation of the democratic process leading to the Edo governorship elections. “It should be recalled that we have raised alarm for a period of time to the violent propensity of Governor Obaseki and his political high priests “We please call on the IGP police to rein in the rampaging violent PDP thugs goaded on by the reckless pronouncements of the PDP.” Also, the Independent National Electoral Commission’s  National Commissioner and chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said the police must neutralise any threat to the conduct of elections. He said, “Training and arming thugs must on no account be allowed a free reign. The electoral environment must guarantee the safety of election officials and the voters. The security agencies must act proactively and place persons with a history of electoral violence under security watch and arrest. “Nigeria and Nigerians must break the cycle of electoral impunity. We reiterate our call for the speedy passage of the Electoral Offences Commission Bill.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  