Dele Ogunyemi, Warri The Department of Petroleum Resources has shut down Offshore Safety Training Centres in Warri and Port Harcourt operated by Opeans Nigeria Limited. Sources attributed the shutdown of the two centres to “the failure of the company to meet the DPR requirement for operating such Offshore Safety and Emergency Response training centres in Nigeria”. It was gathered that Opeans Nigeria Limited conducts courses such as the Basic Offshore Safety Induction and Emergency Training, Helicopter Underwater Escape Training, Further Offshore Emergency Training at the training centres in Warri and Port Harcourt. But the DPR, in an official letter signed by its Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr Sarki Auwalu, and addressed to the Managing Director of Opeans Nigeria Limited, stated that the centres did not comply with the DPR Guidelines. The DPR Guidelines and Procedure for Travel to Offshore/Swamp Location and Obtainment of Offshore Safety Permit, which took effect in June 2019, stated the mandatory requirements that operators of Offshore Safety and Emergency Response Training Centres must strictly adhere to. Auwalu had previously stated during a webinar session with the Oil and Gas Trainers Association of Nigeria that the DPR was passionate about entrenching competence and capacity in the oil and gas training space. According to him, the DPR was being cautious in granting of permits to training organisations to curb quackery. “We are trying to check quackery,” he stated. However, a check on the DPR website, Offshore Training Centres – Department of Petroleum Resources, shows that Opeans Nigeria Limited accreditation expired on May 11, 2020. Recall that the Delta State Government had in July shut down Opeans Nigeria Limited owned Offshore Safety Training Centre in Warri “for failure to produce its accreditations to operate in the state”. When contacted on Monday, the Warri Comptroller of DPR, Antai Asoquo confirmed the report to our correspondent in Warri saying he acted on the Warriors facility. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  