Mobola Sadiq It’s no longer news that two of Nigeria’s biggest female songsters, Tiwa Savage and Yemi Alade are not particularly close and often pitched against each other in the entertainment industry. Although Alade shut wagging tongues when she performed  during Tiwa’s concert ‘Everything Savage’ at Eko Conventional Centre, in 2019, their diehard fans have not buried their hatchets. In a series of tweets on Friday, fans of Alade claimed that Savage often blocked Alade’s fans on her Twitter page because she’s ‘envious’ of the latter. The topic soon became a trending topic on Twitter as fans of both entertainers not only bared their fangs at one another, but also compared their idols in terms of albums sales, beauty, sold-out concerts and YouTube views. Views expressed by the fans of both women indicated how much love they have for them. @Mychukwuebuka9 tweeted, “They swore Yemi Alade will not rest for them on this street. We have also sworn to return the favor, in 100 folds, and we ain’t backing out… The worst album of the year, by a female artiste. After all the hype and PR, the auto tune, fake voice and vocals are the most annoying. Yet people will compare that to Yemi Alade. Go and stream woman of steel album and see natural voice and good music.’’ Another fan, @MrOdanz, wrote, “DJ Cuppy dropped an album this year and it competed with Burna Boy and Fireboy’s album on the trend table. Zlatan and Kizz Daniel both dropped an album this year and barely anyone noticed them Tiwa Savage should go and work harder and stop blocking Yemi Alade’s fans on Twitter.” @Tee_Classiquem1 also wrote, “Yesterday, I tried to click on Tiwa savage’s handle to hype her album, only for me to realise I have been blocked already. My only offence was asking a simple question, you don’t see Yemi Alade or Dj cuppy going around blocking every critics on their page.’’ @OGCarterMillz wrote, That I’m pissed at Tiwa Savage doesnt mean I’m now a fan of Yemi Alade. Yemi still sings trash.’’ @AyoMide49070276 also wrote, “Tiwa Savage is bigger than Yemi Alade with everything. Yemi Alade always sings like someone in the burial ground.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 