Olaleye Aluko The Lagos State Police Command has launched a manhunt for a man, Adekunle Adeyemi, alleged to have stabbed his neighbour, Stanley Dickson, to death in the Grammar School, Ikorodu area of the state. Adeyemi, currently on the run, was accused of having an affair with a neighbour’s wife, identified as Chisom Onuoha, an allegation which led to an argument in the their apartment. The incident occurred on Red Block Street in the Grammar School area on July 30 and was reported to the Ikorodu Police Division. A police report obtained by our correspondent from the division noted that there was an altercation in the apartment over whether Adeyemi and Onuoha were having an affair with each other or not. The police said, “A woman, Glory Dickson, came and reported that Adeyemi of the same address came to their room alleging that her husband, Stanley Dickson, told Chisom’s husband, Arinze Onuoha, that he (Adeyemi) was having an affair with his wife (Chisom). READ ALSO: Ogun community rescues newborn dumped in soakaway “This led to an argument and confrontation and in the process; Adeyemi stabbed her husband with a knife on the left side of his chest. The victim was rushed to the Ikorodu General Hospital by sympathisers where he was confirmed dead. The body was brought back home. Hence the report; the action taken was that a team of detectives led moved to the scene and the victim was found already dead lying on the floor of his apartment. “The whole compound has been deserted. On observation of the victim, marks of violence were seen on the left side of the chest and photographs taken. The corpse was evacuated to the general hospital mortuary for an autopsy.” The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Bala Elkana, confirmed the incident. He said, “We have commenced investigation into the case. We have launched a manhunt for the suspect who fled the scene immediately after the incident.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 