Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday, congratulated Prof Innocent Ujah on his election as the President of the Nigerian Medical Association. His congratulatory message was contained in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. The statement was titled, ‘President Buhari congratulates NMA President, Prof Innocent Ujah on election’. Shehu quoted the President as noting that the NMA plays a strategic role in the growth of the country through counselling of leaders on health and development issues. The statement read, “President Muhammadu Buhari felicitates with Prof. Innocent Ujah on his election as President of the Nigerian Medical Association, congratulating all the executive members for the zeal and diligence brought into the organisation within a short period. “President Buhari believes the elected officers of the NMA have admirable profiles that will take the organisation to greater heights, particularly Prof. Ujah, who has worked extensively with national and international institutions, and progressively contributed to the shaping of national policies on health in the country in different capacities. READ ALSO:  FG raises hate speech fine from N500,000 to N5m “The President affirms that the NMA plays a strategic role in the growth of the country through counselling of leaders on health and development issues, and staying on the frontline during emergencies and pandemics to keep everyone safe like the ongoing fight against COVID-19. “President Buhari commends the former President of the NMA, Dr Francis Faduyile and executive members for their investments of time and resources to improve the welfare of doctors, and their working conditions by consistently negotiating and counselling governments. “The President assures Prof. Ujah and the Executive Members of the government’s full cooperation to help them succeed in their leadership positions, and improve health services in the country.”