Matthew Ochei, Asaba A police officer’s wife, Mrs. Precious Joseph, has been jailed for two years without an option of fine for violently abusing her nine years old home-help, Miss Agatha Emmanuel in Asaba, the state capital. The Chief Magistrate of Court 11 in the Okwe Magisterial District, Delta State, P.O. Obayuwana, in his ruling sentenced the 31-year-old to two years inprisonment for inflicting injury in the victim’s mouth with a hot knife. The consequences of the accused’s offence were contained in the two counts in Charge No: OMC/118C/2020: “That you Precious Joseph ‘f’ on 31st day of July 2020 at Iyasele Street, Okwe, in Okwe Magisterial District did unlawfully assaulted one Agatha Emmanuel ‘f’ by causing her harm with hot knife on her mouth and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 355 of the Criminal Code Law, Cap C21 vol.1 Laws of Delta State of Nigeria 2006. “That you Precious Joseph ‘f’ on the same date, time and place in the aforementioned Magisterial District, did threaten violence with kitchen knife on Agatha Emmanuel ‘f’ and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 86 (2) of the Criminal Code Law Cap C21 vol.1 Laws of Delta State of Nigeria 2006. “Therefore, Mrs. Precious Joseph is sentenced to two years in prison without an option of fine for abusing the victim, Agatha Emmanuel’ and inflicting bodily injuries on her,” the Chief Magistrate ruled. The case of child abuse was reported at the B Division Police Station at Okwe by a neighbour, Mr. Simeon Morba, who saw the deep injury in Agatha’s mouth while fetching water and upon enquiry, he was told it was her aunt that inflicted it on her. From the accused’s statement obtained from the police charge file, Mrs. Joseph stated that she burnt Agatha’s mouth because she took meat from the pot of soup despite having been warned. Expressing joy over the judgement on Wednesday, the representative of the Child Rights Implementation Committee in court, Mrs. Awele Ideal Esq, said once again, justice had been served to act as a deterrent to persons who deal violently with children under their custody.