RECENT activities of the State Security Services have further sullied its reputation and raised questions on its appropriate role in Nigeria’s wobbly democracy. From issuing press statements on alleged conspiracies against the state to frivolously summoning critics and activists and breaking up peaceful protests, the agency disturbingly presents the image of a bullying praetorian guard of regime enforcers rather than of a domestic intelligence agency committed to the sustenance of a thriving democracy. The more a government seeks refuge in secrecy and resorts to an iron fist in asserting itself, the less credibility it has with the people it serves. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), must curb its excesses and initiate reforms to refocus its mandate in a democratic polity. Nigeria is in crisis on multiple fronts — political, security and economic. Widespread insecurity, distrust and the behaviour of the SSS demand an urgent review of its mandate, philosophy and operational methods to align an agency created in the military era with a democratising polity. It has become notorious for impunity, disobedience of court orders and partisanship. Its recent activities are typical: it “invited” regime critics such as Obadiah Mailafia, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, and Ghali Na’Abba, a former speaker of the House of Representatives, for questioning. Their offence was their strident criticism of government’s incompetence and alleged official collusion with criminals. The service had also issued statements claiming to have uncovered plots “by subversive groups and individuals to undermine national security, peace and unity in the country” aiming to “set the country on fire” by exploiting  political, religious and ethnic differences. This is ridiculous; intelligence agencies, secret police are covert actors, they do not issue statements detailing their work in the mass media. The public gets to know of “uncovered plots” only when suspects are arrested and subsequently arraigned in court. Mailafia’s explosive allegation of alleged connection to Boko Haram by a northern state governor required covert investigation. Similarly, the public invitation of Na’Abba, after a scathing condemnation of the incompetence of the Buhari regime by a pressure group he co-chairs, merely continues the habitual harassment of regime critics exercising their constitutional rights to free speech and assembly by a service that obviously confuses regime interest with national interest. After several months of detaining him and defying court orders to release him, the SSS finally let out an Aba-based lawyer, Gabriel Ogbonna, from its gulag. Emerging from the security sector reforms of 1986 primarily as the domestic intelligence agency, the SSS has tended to appear more preoccupied with serving regimes, including from criticism and peaceful protests. In a notorious display, masked SSS agents in 2018 invaded the National Assembly in a lawless insertion in politics and only the decisive action by then acting President, Yemi Osinbajo, who promptly sacked its director-general, Lawal Daura, saved the day. But the desecration of the SSS has reached a new low under its current DG, Yusuf Bichi. Its repertoire includes arrests of critics of government and journalists, disruption of peaceful gatherings by NGOs and self-determination groups, detention without trial and disobedience of court orders. The primary mandate of securing the country through intelligence gathering, covert action, Human and Signals intelligence, has suffered. Today, Nigeria is more insecure than never before. Terrorists, bandits, Fulani militants, armed robbers and kidnappers, cult groups and violent thugs are having a free rein. Nigeria Mourns, an NGO, recorded 415 persons killed in July alone. Between January and June, said Amnesty International, bandits killed 1,126 persons, and 380 were kidnapped. While the SSS is busy hounding critics, coordinated attacks on Southern Kaduna by gunmen killed over 100 in July, said AI. Boko Haram and other terror offshoots have been running wild in the North-East region since 2009; despite years of warnings of the creeping influence of jihadism across Africa, the SSS has failed to help stop its infiltration into the North-West as recently confirmed by the US military’s African Command. It behaves like Buhari’s personal enforcer, targeting free speech and the right to peaceful assembly. This has to stop. A domestic spy agency in a democracy exists to advance the frontiers of democracy and the entrenchment of strong institutions as a guarantee of stability and state security. This is established among stable democracies. A policy adopted by NATO member-countries stressed this imperative of balancing security with democracy and freedom; “the mandate must reflect the overall balance required; it must be broad enough to permit the agency to develop adequate intelligence on present and future threats to security, but it must also have clearly defined limits to ensure the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms of nationals.” The Canadian government’s mandate to the Canadian Security Intelligence Service is explicit: “The security system must comply with two principal standards: it must be effective and work within a democratic structure.” Nigeria’s policymakers should henceforth avoid falling into what scholars call ‘Isomorphic Mimicry,’ the copy-and-paste template of developing countries simply adopting forms of institutions without making them effective or adapting them to their peculiarities. Intelligence agencies uncover threats through covert operations. The US Congress identified the three core functions of domestic intelligence as information collection, analysis and action. Making public statements or having public verbal exchanges with politicians, lawyers and activists is absurd and unprofessional. More and more, the development and application of technology tools, SIGNIT as well as tested covert HUMINT tradecraft are used effectively by domestic agencies that have to contend with adversaries that have also become tech-savvy. Utilising cutting-edge surveillance tools, Malaysia’s Special Branch in 2017 foiled a conspiracy by seven local jihadists plotting the murder of Saudi royal family members. The recent arrest and arraignment of Alexander Yuk Chung Ma, an ex-CIA officer, for spying for China followed months of surveillance, monitoring and a sting by the FBI agents before any public activity. But by muzzling opposing voices, trampling on basic rights and promoting regime rather than national interest, the SSS besmirches its image and plunges into the country’s political, ethnic, regional and sectarian divides. Just as the EU, the US and the UK provide effective guarantees against abuse, the Nigerian state must insulate citizens from arbitrariness by security agencies. The UK’s Security Service-MI5, operates undercover and does not arrest citizens on the UK soil, relying on the Met Police to arrest and the Crown Prosecution Office to prosecute suspects. Many countries are putting structures in place to allow them to react quickly and effectively to new and evolving threats, especially acts of terrorism, hostile attacks on cyberspace, major accidents or natural hazards like pandemics and protection for the critical parts of national infrastructure. Reforming the SSS and overhauling the entire security system have become imperative to meet these and other evolving security threats, but especially to redefine their doctrines and methodology in a democratising environment. Emphasis must shift to prevention, surveillance, monitoring, analysis and the entrenchment of strong institutions as the guarantor of citizens’ buy-in and national security. Today’s policing and crime fighting are technology-driven; most terrorist plots in the US and Europe have been uncovered and foiled by effective cyber surveillance and sting operations. Tech tools enable spies and police to effectively track credible national security threats. Nigeria should build institutions that can endure, promote national interest and can detach themselves from politics. Loyalty to country should override loyalty to regime. The SSS has become disastrously incompetent. It is time for its root and branch reform. Merit should be the major factor in recruiting the heads and personnel of security agencies; Buhari’s preference for personal loyalty undermines national security and cohesion. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  