ONE year after Nigeria’s land borders were closed to its West African neighbours, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), ought to undertake a critical review of the policy. Citing economic losses and illegal arms/drugs trade, Nigeria abruptly shut its borders with Benin Republic in August 2019. Not satisfied with the outcome, it extended the ban to the land trade with all its neighbours in October, a tactic that has reverberated around the sub-region. Additionally, it prohibited fuel supply to petrol filling stations within 20-kilometre radius of its borders. These decisions were rightly taken to protect the economy from the nefarious consequences of smuggling. Given however that no robust economy can be an island unto itself, the first anniversary of the closure is appropriate to accomplish a comprehensive re-evaluation of the painful closure. Without doubt, Nigeria has strong reasons for its drastic action. Chief among them are the unchecked smuggling of petroleum products it pays a premium for and the persistent violation of the ECOWAS protocol on goods in transit. Neighbouring countries route goods destined for Nigeria through their ports, tamper with the seals of the containers and re-export such products to Nigeria through smuggling, making huge profits. Rice, palm oil, frozen poultry products, used vehicles and several other products under partial or outright ban in Nigeria, are widely smuggled into the country with tacit approval by neighbouring governments. An obvious case is Benin Republic: its imports per capita are far too large for its 11 million population. After Nigeria raised its tariff on rice imports to 70 per cent in 2013, Benin crashed its own from 35 per cent to five per cent in 2014. A 2018 study found that Benin was the sixth largest importer of rice in the world from Thailand. The rice ends up mainly in Nigeria. This undermines the economy and efforts to revive domestic agriculture. Nigeria also suffers hugely from fuel smuggling. Going by records from the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria, between 10 and 20 per cent of Nigeria’s fuel, which it imports at the expense of its economy, is smuggled across the borders. It loses revenue from import duties on smuggled vehicles. Cattle-rustling is rampant in the northern outposts. Worst of all is the illicit arms trade. In this, terrorists and bandits exploit the loose and undermanned border routes to flood Nigeria with arms being deployed for their nefarious activities. Thus, Nigeria acted to end the subversion of its territorial integrity and security. In retrospect, Nigeria has recorded some gains in the past 12 months. In particular, customs revenue jumped by 30 per cent to N8 billion daily, the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, stated. The poultry industry rose in value by N50 billion. Buhari said, “Nigeria saved millions of dollars from rice imports.” Temporarily, smuggling of goods and arms reduced. In turn, genuine importers diverted their goods and raw materials to the congested seaports. The measures have taken a dystopian turn as there are strong indications that Nigeria is losing more than the income it is gaining, particularly in export trade and jobs. Take inflation, it has climbed upward steadily since the border closure. The inflation rate, which was 11.2 per cent at the beginning of the partial border closure, climbed to 11.85 per cent in November, the highest rate since May 2018, the National Bureau of Statistics said. In January, it was 12.13 per cent and 12.40 per cent by May. Although the NCS said it has seized rice consignments worth N3.5 billion during the closure, SBM Intelligence, an economic research firm, says that export-oriented firms are closing down. Beverage manufacturers, among others, reportedly lost trillions of naira of raw materials that have been stuck at the borders. “Nigerian authorities assume that a border closure works only one way – on the import side. But it bears reiterating that the country is actually a net exporter via the land borders and this closure affects these exporters,” SBM noted. “There is a net loss to the economy in terms of export revenue,” the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria added. This is not good enough. It is just as hard on domestic jobs. The Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents estimated that 1,000 customs brokers and 200,000 industry employees have lost their jobs to the ban. A study calculated that in the past 10 months, about three million Nigerians whose businesses depend on the cross-border trade, are jobless. As the borders in the North remained porous, not much was gained. Arms infiltration is evident, leading to the unusually high resurgence in banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling and terrorism, mainly in the North. Although Nigeria claimed the moral high ground at the beginning of the closure, the table is turning: ECOWAS countries are now outraged. Having precipitately signed the African Continental Free Trade Agreement deal three months before the closure, other African countries might soon follow suit. Unfortunately, as Brookings Institution argues, “the region’s artificial and often porous borders, a long history of regional trade, weak border enforcement, corruption, and, perhaps most importantly, lack of coordination of economic policies among neighbouring countries” pose serious problems. It is argued that border closure should only be for a brief period to solve a particular problem. As cross-border trade is vital to the economic wellbeing of contiguous countries, lengthy border closures do not solve any real economic problems. Therefore, the Buhari regime should change tack and get down to the hard work of reviewing the effects of the closure in the past year. Partially, smuggling is thriving because Nigeria’s borders are porous and containment efforts inefficient. It has about 80 legal border outposts, but over 1,400 illegal crossings. This is overwhelming for the security agencies to guard, but by introducing technology, much can be achieved. Chips and tracking devices on containers are very effective. Modern scanners, which quicken the clearing of goods, are ready tools. To revive exports, Nigeria could involve the multilateral organisations to oversee the implementation of the tripartite committee of Nigeria, Benin and Niger to curb the smuggling of goods, arms and illicit drugs. Most importantly, the regime should do more to diversify the economy; bridge the wide gap between the official and black-market rates of the naira; end fuel subsidy and improve ports operations immediately. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 