Deji Lambo The Ogun State Police Command has confirmed the arrest of a suspect, Adewunmi Lawal, who allegedly raped his neighbour’s daughter in the Itele, Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State. PUNCH Metro had reported that the victim’s mother, a widow, left the victim and her three siblings at home and went to Badagry, Lagos State, for prayers. Two days after she left home, Adewunmi allegedly broke into her house in the night and allegedly had carnal knowledge of her 16-year-old daughter. After perpetrating the crime, the suspect reportedly went into hiding from where he appealed to the victim’s mother for settlement. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, had said the command had declared Adewunmi wanted, adding that the case had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation. However, in a follow-up reaction, Abimbola confirmed that the suspect had been arrested and would be charged for the crime. He said, “He was arrested two days ago. He was sighted somewhere in Lagos because he was looking for ways to persuade the parents of the girl and in the process, he went to the office of a non-governmental organisation in Lagos; he wanted the NGO to invite the victim’s mother for them to resolve. [READ ALSO] Arotile: Two suspects freed, driver to escape death “While he was there, we got information and quickly alerted our counterpart in Lagos that they should get him arrested for us. He was arrested at Ijaiye Ojokoro and our operatives from here went there to bring him in. As soon as we conclude investigation, he will be going to court.” When contacted on the development, the victim’s mother said, “I felt happy when I saw him (Adewunmi) yesterday in police custody in the Oke-Ilewo area of Abeokuta. “Until his arrest, he had been sending his friends to beg me and pledging to pay all the money I spent on the matter, but I kept telling his friends to advise him to surrender himself. I want justice to be served.” ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 