Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja A total of 3,800 power and distribution transformers are to be installed across the country based on the deal between the Federal Government with the German Government and Siemens AG. The Office of the Minister of Power disclosed this in series of tweets on Tuesday, which were further affirmed by the Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, via his official Twitter handle. The OMP explained that the 3,800 power and distribution transformers would come under the first phase of the Presidential Power Initiative deal with the German government and Siemens. The PUNCH had reported that the Federal Executive Council approved the payment of €15.21m (N6,940,081,465.20) offshore and N1.708bn onshore as part of Nigeria’s counterpart funding for the power deal with Siemens AG. The total amount approved by FEC in July for the deal was N8,648,081,465.2. Providing a breakdown on some of the distribution projects as proposed by power distribution companies to be implemented in phase one of the deal, the power ministry said 3,765 distribution transformers would be deployed. On power transformers, the OMP said 35 would be provided in phase one of the PPI/Siemens deal. It further stated that 11 units of trailer mounted transformers would be deployed, while 431 units of auxiliary equipment would be made available. In July 2019, the Federal Government and Siemens signed a Letter of Agreement on the Nigeria Electrification Road Map. This was after Nigeria’s President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, met on August 31, 2018, in Abuja. Additional data obtained from the Office of the Minister of Power showed that under phase one of the deal, a total of 1,904 units of protective devices would be deployed across electricity distribution projects. Also, 11 units of safety and testing equipment would be made available, while 33 units of software licences would be provided. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  