Ebenezer Bajela Six Nigerian chess players have boycotted the second round of the ongoing World Chess Olympiad. Oladapo Adu, Bunmi Olape, Perpetua Ogbiyo, Abimbola Osunfuyi, Femi Balogun and Callistus. It is the first edition of the Online Olympiad and the Nigerian chess players, having scaled through from the first round, shunned the competition after poor treatment by the Nigeria Chess Federation administration, our correspondent learnt. “We were supposed to be given materials like laptop and data for the event, but these things were not provided,” IM Dapo Adu said. “The players did everything on their own in the first round and we qualified. We had about five days before the next round, which started on Friday, and we told the (NCF) president (Lekan Adeyemi) he needed to address us concerning data and other things that we would need and we all agreed that we would pull out if he didn’t address us. “So, we pulled out because we didn’t have the resources to participate; we can’t be spending our money to be on Zoom for hours in this current situation. “All the while the president was reading the comments on our platform, but he didn’t respond to them until 11:09am (on Friday) and the game started at 11am. Apparently he responded because we didn’t participate in the game.” Another player, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added, “The major reason we decided to boycott the event was because of lack of communication between the president and the players. “When players were asking for the way forward, we didn’t get a response until the last minute when nobody was online to play; that was when the president started typing and appealing to players.” “We had issues like increasing cost of data due to Zoom application and what to expect in allowances, which the captain couldn’t resolve, so we requested the president to address the issues. “But for four days, he didn’t address it, so we felt he didn’t want to be bothered. When we decided to discontinue playing, he embarked on a damage control but it was too late,” a male player told The PUNCH. On a possible sanction on Nigeria by world body FIDE over the boycott, Adu added, “The implication is not going to look good on the Nigerian Chess Federation at the world governing body. We will deal with whatever that comes out of it because there is a problem and we need a change.” President, African Chess Confederation, Lewis Ncube, however said a ban on Nigeria is unlikely. He said, “This is really sad because with the appropriate leadership Nigeria should be one of the leading African chess playing nations. “I don’t know if there will be a sanction because this depends on the official reason provided by the NCF. Somalia could not complete their games due to the shutdown of internet access on account of a political decision. This cannot lead to any sanctions on the Somali Chess Federation. “This is a decision of the Organising Committee for the Online Chess Olympiad but I don’t think this will happen. The organisers are quite flexible as this is the first Online Olympiad.” Efforts by our correspondent to reach the chess federation president, Lekan Adeyemi, to comment on the issue proved abortive. He didn’t pick our correspondent’s call, while he also didn’t respond to a text message sent to him as at the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 