Dayo Ojerinde The Minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs, Dr George Akume, has urged those in leadership positions to collaborate in improving health facilities. Akume, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry,  Festus Daudu, said this at the handover of medical equipment to Onikan Health Centre, Lagos by the National Lottery Trust Fund on Thursday. He said, “We are all aware of the dangers posed by COVID-19, its capacity to destroy human lives and its negative impact on the global economy. This is, therefore, a wake-up call to all in leadership positions to start working actively collaboratively in improving our health care facilities.” The minister urged the hospital management to put the donated equipment to proper use for the benefit of the people of Lagos State. Some of the equipment donated included cardiotocography machine, phototherapy machine, remote-controlled delivery beds, an automatic cardiac defibrillator, a neonatal incubator, a resuscitaire, a blood bank refrigerator, and a laboratory microscope. The Chief Executive Officer of the National Lottery Trust Fund, Dr Bello Maigari, said the intervention of the agency was to deliver world-class vital medical facilities urgently required to deliver excellent care to the people. “We are confident that our efforts will make all the difference in saving lives by providing a high standard of care not only to vulnerable pregnant women and children, but to other patients seeking urgent interventions with serious diagnostic challenges in the state. “The current pandemic which has ravaged many nations across the globe must not be allowed to resurge as a second wave in Nigeria. We must, therefore, rise to its challenge and stop the spread of the virus,” Maigari said. He urged Nigerians to continue to obey the NCDC COVID-19 guidelines to stop the spread of the virus. “Strict adherence to lawful government orders and instructions by citizens will curb the spread of the disease. Staying at home, keeping social distance, washing hands frequently, wearing masks are some of the norms, good practices and attitudes I encourage our people to adopt as a way of life in curtailing the spread of this pandemic,” Maigari added. The Medical Director of the hospital, Dr Olubiyi Kufo, while thanking the NLTF, said the equipment would help the hospital to render better services to the patients. Kufo said the 60-year-old hospital which offers a wide range of services to residents of Lagos State would put the equipment to use judiciously. He said, “A total of 190,747 patients visited this hospital in 2019, and on a monthly basis, no fewer than 53 deliveries were recorded in the hospital. “We sincerely appreciate the fund for this donation, and it will help us to do more in the services we render.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 