Ade Adesomoju, Abuja A Briton, James Nolan, linked to Adam Quinn, a son of P&ID founder, Michael Quinn, was on Tuesday arraigned before the Federal High Court in Abuja in six separate cases involving money laundering charges. Nolan was arraigned along with six companies before Justice Ahmed Mohammed on counts ranging from six to eight in the separate cases on Tuesday. The Process and Industrial Development, a British Virgin Island firm, had obtained a $9.6bn arbitral award against Nigeria in London over an alleged breach of a 2010 gas supply agreement by the Federal Government. Federal Government is battling to have the award issued in favour of P&ID set aside in a London court. Nolan was initially arraigned before another judge of the Federal High Court in Abuja, Justice Okon Abang, on 16 counts bordering on money laundering, tax evasion, and forgery of immigration documents, among others. Adam Quinn is named as a co-defendant in the case but was not available when the EFCC arraigned Nolan before Justice Abang on October 21, 2019. On December 18, 2019, following an application by the EFCC, Justice Abang issued an order for Quinn’s arrest, but the order has yet to be executed. On Tuesday, Nolan was arraigned in six fresh cases before Justice  Mohammed. The Briton was charged separately with six companies in the six cases. The companies, in which he is said to be a director are, Exophoenix Nigeria Limited, Babcock Electrical Projects Limited, L.I.R Resources Nigeria Limited, Marshpearl Nigeria Limited, Lurgi Consult Limited, and Kriatholm Nigeria Limited. READ ALSO: Lawyers compile tribunal records as Diri appeals judgment Nolan and Quinn, who is said to be at large,  are named as co-directors of Marshpearl Nigeria Limited. The EFCC accused Nolan and others of among other offences,   failing to comply with the requirements of submitting to the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, a declaration of their activities as specified under section 5(1)(a) (ii) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011, an act said to be punishable under section 16(2)(b) of the same Act. Nolan pleaded not guilty to all the charges. Following his plea, his lawyer, Paul Erokoro (SAN), urged Justice Mohammed to grant bail to the Briton in the same terms and conditions granted him by Justice Abang and as varied by the Court of Appeal in Abuja on July 7, 2020. The prosecuting counsel, Bala Sanga, did not oppose the application. Justice Mohammed granted the request and adjourned till October 5, for trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 