Our academic activities and life have continued seamlessly since the beginning of this academic year. We had started the second semester before the global pause caused by the Covid-19 pandemic began. We knew that the pandemic was not child’s play and told our staff and students that the world would never be the same again. Without any loss of time, we moved all our activities online. It was easy because in the last two years we have continued to insist that all lectures must be uploaded on our university platform for students to download and read. Most of the lectures had already been added online before the lockdown began. The university senate approved that all lectures must be held online via Zoom, Google Meet or GO University online learning platform. To underscore our commitment to online teaching, we also organized the first international Zoom conference on e-learning in Nigeria on 10 June 2020, which attracted more than four hundred participants (as well as speakers) from different parts of the world. We have also continued to hold senate and other meetings online via Zoom.  In fact, without any exaggeration or self-glorification, Godfrey Okoye University is leading today in online activities (lectures, meetings, workshops, conferences, etc.) among all the universities in Nigeria. Besides, all our institutions, including our nursery and primary schools, are holding online classes and meetings uninterruptedly.  INFORMATION REGARDING THE 2020/21 ACADEMIC SESSION The university has confirmed that the 2020/21 academic session will start on 5 October, 2020. The management of Godfrey Okoye University is working tirelessly to provide as much face-to-face teaching as possible as well as online teaching and learning. Measures shall be put in place to ensure the general safety of members of staff and students: maintaining social distancing and also adhering to the directives of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the National Universities Commission and the Federal Government of Nigeria.  Prospective students are hereby advised to visit the online admissions portal of the university to fill the admission form online. https://www.gouni.edu.ng/fill-admission-form/ Faculties For enquires call: 08069111019, 08068820118 or email: info@gouni.edu.ng, msnwachukwu@gouni.edu.ng, chinedu@gouni.edu.ng Chinedu Anthony Director of ICT