Olaleye Aluko The United Nations Mission in Nigeria has warned that over 10.6 million people in the North-East states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe are in need of humanitarian assistance in 2020 and risk hunger and destitution due to fallouts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr Edward Kallon, who stated this during his opening remarks at a virtual briefing on the deteriorating situation in the North-East, noted that the number of distressed people at 10.6 million in 2020 was the highest in five years, and called for an urgent attention from the government and other stakeholders. The UN chief stressed that the COVID-19 pandemic “exacerbates the dire humanitarian situation in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states, and risks wreaking havoc on the most vulnerable population.” He said, “The number of people needing humanitarian assistance is the highest ever recorded in five years of a joint humanitarian response. The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting us all. Its devastating effects will distress Nigeria’s most fragile region. Unless we take an immediate action, we should prepare for a spike in conflict, hunger and destitution in North-East Nigeria. “Over 10.6 million people – out of a total of 13 million, or four in five people – will need some form of humanitarian assistance in 2020. This is close to a 50 per cent increase in people in need since last year, mainly from increasing violence and insecurity further compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic. “We know that many of our donors are facing extraordinary economic and social challenges at home as a result of the pandemic, that will require vast resources. Now is the time for all of us to step up for the most vulnerable and demonstrate our solidarity amid the greatest global challenge of our times. Together, we have already changed the course of history in North-East Nigeria for the better and we can do so once again.” Also, at the briefing, the Representative and Country Director of the World Food Programme, Mr Paul Howe, said, “We are concerned about conflict-affected communities who already face severe hunger and are vulnerable to the socio-economic fallout from the pandemic. They are on life support and need assistance to survive.” The Chairman of the North-East Civil Society Forum, Ambassador Ahmed Shehu, noted, “Many of our colleagues have lost their lives in the service to humanity. Accessing the most vulnerable communities has become more challenging even for us as national organisations. “Many of our colleagues have lost their lives in the service to humanity. We are urging the international community to support the North-East. It is important we all come together to provide assistance to people in need and work even closer together, especially with local actors.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com