What led to the creation of your company and what inspired the name? My company was inspired by a pile of 20 abandoned used tyres that were about to be disposed of by my sister’s neighbours back in 2016. I was able to identify an opportunity where they saw a problem and this led to the birth of Cyrus45factory. The name was inspired by the scripture, in Isaiah 45:3, where God told King Cyrus that He would give him hidden riches in secret places. What stirred your interest in making products out of recycled items? I have always been a lover of revamping old items. I can remember taking up an interest in upcycling as far back as when I was nine years old because I believed there was potential in what people saw as waste. But I had no idea that I was upcycling back then. What we do is totally different from recycling. With upcycling, waste materials are repurposed into items of higher value and unlike recycling, the waste materials are not shredded or melted or crushed to make new items. How would you describe the acceptance of your products? There has been an amazing acceptance of our products in the Nigerian market since we officially launched in 2017. I am always excited when I see people awed by what we do. The ‘ecomarket’ may be emergent in the Nigerian space but it is increasingly gaining recognition and acceptance and we find more people with preference for our products than the conventional furniture pieces. What gives you the most concern as a business owner? Not making impact. Above making profit and gaining a few recognitions here and there, I am really passionate about impacting my world. My hope is the company will impact not only the environment but also Nigerians and hopefully, Africans in general. What is the toughest business decision you’ve ever taken? The toughest business decision I have ever taken was shutting down my business for three months. It was at the early stage and I felt I was on the right trajectory until I needed to answer some hard truths and even though I was reluctant, shutting down and restrategising was one of the best things to happen to the company. In what ways did you change your business operations after that? After the hiatus, the business had more organisational structure and we were able to formalise the company because prior to that time, we were not registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission. We were able to also have a production flow and employ more carpenters. What challenges did you face in the early days of the company? Funding, positioning of my brand and finding dedicated staff were a few of the challenges I faced in the early days of my business. But as each year goes by, we are able to surmount these challenges one after the other. Did you undergo any formal training for your business? No, I didn’t undergo any training for the technical part of my business. I relied solely on YouTube and understudying my carpenters. I however got some entrepreneurial training from Orange Corners Nigeria in 2019. As a small and medium-sized enterprise, have you had access to any type of funding? Yes, I have. What are some of the milestones your company has attained? Since inception, we have been featured on several local and international media platforms including the British Broadcasting Corporation, Al-Jazeera, Financial Times UK and L’économiste. I was also invited to speak at the African Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. What are your short-term and long-term goals for the business? Our short-term goal is to launch a new line of upcycled pieces from glass bottles and extend our products to the international market as we have been getting demands from people overseas while our long term goal is to have a few showrooms in different states in Nigeria and become a household name for all things eco interior. How many staff do you have and how do you manage them? We have 10 staff members which consist of both part-time and full-time members. Some of them work on a project by project basis. Do you have any corporate work experience? Yes. Prior to going into full time entrepreneurship, I worked in the media and advertising space as a content developer and media executive for five years. What are some of the principles you follow in your life and business? One of the principles I follow is excellence. I believe in giving 100 per cent or nothing. It requires a lot of discipline and hard work though. I also live by a quote by Martin Luther King, “If a man is called to be a street sweeper, he should sweep streets even as a Michaelangelo painted, or Beethoven composed music or Shakespeare wrote poetry”. You support Goals 12 and 13 of the 2030 Sustainable Developmental Goals. In what ways do you do that? My company supports responsible consumption and production as well as climate action through our products which are upcycled from non-biodegradable waste materials. Through our upcycling activities, we produce ecofriendly items that reduce the number of waste materials that end up in landfills which in turn help to protect the environment. What’s your assessment of the recycling culture in Nigeria? The recycling culture in Nigeria is fast growing but we still need a lot of sensitisation and awareness. Personally, I believe a lot of Nigerians don’t have a full grasp of the ripple effect of improper waste management and why recycling is important. Even though the Blue Box initiative (by the Lagos State government) is a good start, the government and recycling bodies still need to put up more structures to foster a stronger and better recycling culture. What’s your advice to Nigerians as regards recycling? My advice would be that we should take it more seriously and adopt an ecolifestyle because our world would be better for it. Who are your role models? My role models are Ibikun Awosika, Tosin Osinowo and Thomas Sankara. What are some of the biggest mistakes you think young entrepreneurs make? I believe the biggest mistakes young entrepreneurs make are not bootstrapping in the early stages and refusing to consistently innovate. Innovation is one of the hallmarks of entrepreneurship and to go far, entrepreneurs need to continuously innovate while operations run lean until they are properly afloat. What are your other interests? I love the arts, writing and dancing. I also love helping young couples bond through fun-filled activities. What are your educational qualifications? I have a Bachelor in Foreign Languages, French. So, I speak French to a certain degree. How do you unwind? My hobbies are dancing, doodling and watching movies. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 