Sodiq Oyeleke The Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria, Lagos State Area Unit has lamented the killings in Southern Kaduna. The Amir (President) of MSSNLagos, Miftahudeen Thanni, made this known at a press conference on Tuesday. Thanni, who is newly appointed as the president of MSSNLagos, explained that the government must wake up to its responsibility of protecting its citizens. While responding to a question on insecurity in Southern Kaduna, Thanni said, “The killings must stop. One of the primary responsibilities of government is to secure the citizens and the properties of the citizens. “Security is key, so because of this we still implore the government to do the needful, the government is trying but they have not done their best if they can do better I think this will be a forgotten issue. “I also want to implore citizens and indigenes of Kaduna, especially Southern Kaduna in particular to sue for peace, to embrace peace at all times, not only by speech but by all their activities.” READ ALSO: Carrington leaked information of my arrest during Abacha regime -Obasanjo Thanni also expressed concern over the rate of insecurity in other parts of the country. He added, “The state of insecurity in the country is still worrisome. Though there might have been some improvement, there is a need for the security agencies to do more. “As a student-based organisation, we are concerned about the increasing cases of ritual killing and rape. We appeal to the government to always remember that the security of lives and properties is their primary responsibility.” The Amirah (female head) of the MSSNLagos, Basheeroh Majekodunmi, warned school principals against hijab harassment. “We will not entertain any case of hijab harassment or molestation of any kind. Principals and teachers should be aware that there is an Appeal Court ruling which guarantees the freedom to use the hijab in schools. “We will not only sue defaulters, but we will also ensure that we name and shame them publicly,” she added. The new executives emerged after the virtual conference held by the MSSNLagos on Sunday. While Thanni emerged as the Amir; Naibul Amir, Mukhtar Oyetunji; Secretary, AbdulFatah Hamzah; Assistant Secretary, Taofeek Ogundele; Financial Secretary, AbdulAzeez Abdul Raheem; Business Chairman, Qazeem Musa; Welfare, Kamaldeen Abiona; Director of Studies, Qazeem Akinlotan; Assistant Director of Studies, Qazeem Yahya; and Internal Auditor, AbdulKabir Kuye. Others are Amirah, Basheerah Majekodunmi; Naibatul Ameerah, Azeezah Gidigbi; Secretary
Asmau Yahya; Sisters’ PRO, Sekinah Adeyinka; Welfare, Muhibah Adeoye; and treasurer
Ma’rufah Adeshokan.