ADEYINKA OLASENI The All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party have traded blame over shootings that reportedly happened on Thursday during a PDP campaign rally at Apanam in the Etsako West Local Government Area of the state. A PDP chieftain and Chairman of Etsako West Local Government Area, Imonofi Osumah, blamed an APC chieftain and a former commissioner in the state, Lucky James, for the shootings, which reportedly led to three people being injured. However, the state Publicity Secretary of the APC, Chris Azebamwan, debunked the claims. But he alleged that some youths loyal to the PDP were caught destroying the campaign posters of the APC governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Azebamwan explained that the PDP youths’ action was, however, met with strong resistance by youths loyal to the APC. Speaking with our correspondent, Osumah alleged that James had stationed some hoodlums, who immediately started shooting when the PDP campaign team arrived in Apanam. He said, “As we were going to Ward 10 in Apanam, the people said Lucky James’ boys were shooting. But the security agents with us chased them away and we started our rally. But when we moved to Ward 2 in Auchi, the hoodlums started shooting again. “Our security people were also there and chased them away; we did not engage them in any gunfight. By Friday night, all our billboards had been destroyed. “But I have told our members to keep calm because we have worked hard and we are sure that we will be victorious at the poll. The Godwin Obaseki-led government has done well for the people and they are ready to vote for him again.” However, Azebamwan denied that any APC chieftain sponsored hoodlums to engage in the shootings. “Some youths affiliated to the PDP were trying to damage the billboards of the APC, so youths loyal to the APC challenged them. In the course of the argument, one ThankGod and his accomplices brought out AK-47 rifles and started shooting. Fortunately, no one died but three APC members were injured – two adults and a child,” he said. Also, Ize-Iyamu on Saturday dissociated himself and the APC from the violence on Thursday, saying his party had been peaceful during its campaigns across the state and would never be involved in violence. The News Agency of Nigeria reported the APC governorship candidate for the September 19 election as saying the party members did not commit any dastardly act in Apanam. He said, “We heard of so much violence during the PDP rally in Etsako West and they are accusing us of the destruction and shooting, saying the APC is causing trouble. “We did not go near their activities, we did not destroy any of their billboards and we have no hands in the violence that took place at their rally. “We don’t believe in violence and we have no intention to encourage our members to be violent. We have eyewitnesses who know who committed the act in Apanam. We have never destroyed any property belonging to the opposition parties.” Meanwhile, Obaseki on Friday threatened to deal with political thugs who undermined the law and order in any part of the state before and during the election. Also at the APC rally, Ize-Iyamu accused Obaseki of reducing the membership of Edo South from majority to minority as he inaugurated only three out of the 10 lawmakers who represented the seven local government areas in the zone. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  