Adelani Adepegba and Okechukwu Nnodim The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has inaugurated the executive management team of the Federal Housing Authority. He charged the team to strive to complete the ongoing housing projects of the Federal Government across the country, while speaking at the inauguration ceremony at the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing in Abuja. The new FHA team has Senator Olugbenga Ashafa as Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, while Abdulmumuni Jibril is Executive Director, Business Development. Mr Maurice Ekpeyong is Executive Director, Housing Finance and Corporate Services. Fashola congratulated the management team for the confidence reposed on them by the President and expressed hope that the trust and confidence would be justified in the discharge of their duties. The minister told the new FHA management that the Act establishing the authority had set out clear responsibilities for the organisation. He urged the management team to work assiduously to ensure that the challenge of housing gaps in Nigeria was addressed. Fashola further charged the new team to commit to developing new estates in urban centres in order to address the housing needs which were greater in urban centres. “We don’t interfere on what parastatals do but we will intervene if we see you veering off,” the minister told the new FHA management. Ashafa pledged his team’s support and commitment towards providing affordable houses for Nigerians. In a related development, the President of Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria, Alhaji Aliyu Wamakko, has urged the Federal Government to see investment in housing as an opportunity to revamp the post-COVID-19 economy. Wamakko in a statement on Friday said REDAN was ready and open for discussion with government to deliver over three million housing deficit across the nation. He said, “We are sure of creating thousands of jobs through housing construction. Direct building of houses shouldn’t be the business of the government; rather, they should provide an enabling environment and favourable policies for the private sector to do it.” He called on the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Godwin Emefiele, to match word with action on the pledge by the bank to support housing development in order to create employment. Wamakko commended the appointment of Sen. Gbenga Ashafa and AbdulMumin Jibrin by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) as the Managing Director and Executive Director, Business Development respectively at the Federal Housing Authority. The REDAN president noted that Ashafa and Jibrin’s experience in lawmaking would come to bear in the affairs of the agency “which will lead to a robust housing policies implementation that will enhance housing delivery nationwide.” The REDAN president also commended the FHA for registering to become a member of the Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria. He said a letter had been sent to the Authority to show appreciation of its membership as well as to congratulate the new management of the FHA. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 