A fresh attention has been drawn to the urgent need to redress the despairing state of girl-child education and, by extension, the miserable living condition in Northern Nigeria. This followed the launch by the World Bank of a credit facility to improve secondary education opportunities and empowerment for adolescent girls in targeted areas. The beneficiary states are Kano, Kebbi, Kaduna, Katsina, Borno, and Plateau. Only Ekiti State, in the South-West, is outside the northern region. The World Bank Board of Directors in a statement said it had approved the $500m credit from the International Development Association for the Adolescent Girls Initiative for Learning and Empowerment with the aim of keeping adolescent girls in school. Noting that the poor infrastructure and lack of water sanitation and hygiene facilities combined to prevent girls from staying in school, the World Bank rightly bemoaned the poverty level in the North, where close to 80 per cent of poor households are, which makes it very challenging for them to cover the direct and indirect costs of schooling. This is a salutary development as any initiative aimed at getting the country’s huge out-of-school children population that is mainly domiciled in the North into schools is worthwhile. However, as commendable as this initiative is, the bigger challenge, among others, lies in the transparent and accountable use of the approved funds by the relevant political leaders and project implementers. Corruption has hobbled the effective use of development funding in the country. Similarly, religious and traditional leaders, especially from the region, had better wake up to the grim future life without quality education poses to a large percentage of their population in a world headlined by rapid technological and scientific advancement. Leena Hoffmann, a political sociologist at Chatham House, a UK think tank, quoted by Financial Times, attested to this when she posited that a typical girl’s life in Northern Nigeria “revolves around marriage and children.” It is estimated over 50 per cent of girls between ages 18 and 20 were given out in marriage in Northern Nigeria, stressing that what makes it more worrisome is that 75 per cent of them can neither read nor write. The consequence is the twin-tragedy of high illiteracy rate and out-of-school phenomenon in the region. The Voice of America noted that a survey conducted by UNICEF indicates that the population of out-of-school children in Nigeria has risen from 10.5 million to 13.2 million, the highest in the world. Most of these children, incidentally, are in the northern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, where Boko Haram insurgent activities have disrupted socio-economic and academic activities. Sadly, about 60 per cent of them are girls, with many of those who enrol dropping out early. Random abductions of schoolchildren resulted in many giving up schooling. This disturbing reality was amplified by the United States Africa Command, which stated last week that terrorist groups, including the Islamic State, al-Qaeda, Boko Haram and al-Shabaab, had shut down over 9,000 schools in different African countries, including Nigeria in the last five years. Inexorably, insurgency-induced forced closure of schools, surely, translates to widening illiteracy and poverty. This should worry every stakeholder at all levels. Aside from that, experts say that this is a testament to the low perceptions of the value of education for girls in the region. This must change. According to the World’s Women 2015 report, published every five years, 781 million adults over the age of 15 are illiterate; more than 496 million of them (two thirds) are women. EDUCELEB, an education advocacy group, in a 2018 report, observed that there is a national average of 59.3 per cent female literacy rate for Nigerians between 15 and 24 years old. On a geopolitical basis, the survey further notes that the South-East leads with 95.4 per cent and the North-West the lowest at 38 per cent. Others are the South-South, 94.8 per cent; South-West, 92.6 per cent; North-Central, 62 per cent, and the North-East, 41 per cent. Consequently, the time to revisit the ill-advised non-domestication of the Child Rights Act 2003, which incorporated the Convention on the Rights of the Child, by 11 out of the 19 northern states, is now. The states are Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Sokoto, Jigawa, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Yobe and Zamfara. There is no justification for further dithering in domesticating the Act by these states to provide the necessary legal framework for the improvement of the fortune and welfare of the girl-child. The CRA is a piece of legislation that expands the human rights bestowed on Nigerian citizens to the children by the constitution. The dire situation was not lost on the now deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, who, in 2017, hinged the sad realities in the region on Northern political leaders’ penchant to “keep building mosques and our daughters are illiterates…” His admonition was simple: “If you really want to help, go and educate a girl child in the village.” Sanusi also explored a nexus between low girl-child education and the extant poor maternal, newborn and child health in the region. Northern governors should prioritise free and compulsory education for girls from primary to at least secondary school or tertiary level. This, Sanusi said, “would help them to know how to live a good life and master the dangers associated with marriage and maternal health.” As extant realities in the North show, this has been one Herculean task for many state governors. Their preferences have rather been in advancing other mundane and unprofitable interests like building religious centres, sponsoring pilgrimages and mass weddings. There is a need to emulate other countries that have empanelled and implemented workable policies and frameworks that encourage girl-child education and prohibit school withdrawal. Besides, initiatives like food subsidies, enhancement of the learning environment and incentives to families and communities to boost primary school enrolment should be encouraged and pursued. In 2018, Egypt’s Ministry of Local Development said it was targeting the elimination of illiteracy in the country, along with raising Egyptians’ capabilities within three years. The country’s 2030 Vision as published by the Ministry of Planning, projects illiteracy to fall to zero per cent in the coming years. The North should get its priorities right. The Northern states waste too much funds on religion. They should muster the required political will and strong desire to pursue girl-child education. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com