Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja Doctors in the employ of the Federal Capital Territory including those on COVID-19 duty will on Tuesday commence an indefinite strike, The PUNCH has learnt. This is according to an internal memo signed by the Secretary of the Association of Resident Doctors in the FCT, Dr. Mustapha Ibrahim, on Monday. The memo was addressed to all doctors, including Medical Directors of government hospitals. The memo titled notice of strike action, read in part, “This is to inform you that we will be embarking on an indefinite strike with effect from 8 am on Tuesday, September 1, 2020, following the decision of the EGM dated Friday, August 28, 2020.” Also, in a communiqué issued at the end of the emergency general meeting of the ARD on August 28, 2020, the association said it was embarking on strike for seven reasons. The communiqué, which was signed by the President of the FCT ARD, Dr Roland Aigbovo; and its Secretary, Dr. Mustapha Ibrahim, stated that the government had refused to pay COVID-19 hazard allowance, adding that the government had failed to reflect the salary increase of those promoted since 2016′ READ ALSO: Buhari laments ‘bitter, unnecessary quarrels’ in APC The document read in part, “Due to the insensitivity displayed by the Office of the Permanent Secretary, FCT, and widespread agitations among our members in the various FCT hospitals in isolation/treatment centres, following series of failed promises, we regret to notify the administration and by extension the general public that the association would embark on an indefinite strike action with effect from 8am, September 1, 2020 until the payment of the COVID-19 hazard and inducement allowance is received and the variation of the 2018 promotion exercise implemented.” Some doctors working in isolation centres said they had not been paid hazard allowance since May. Abuja currently has the highest number of active COVID-19 cases in the country with over 3, 575 persons infected with COVID-19, according to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control.