Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Monday, sacked two commissioners in a cabinet reshuffle. While the Commissioner for Education, Muyiwa Olumilua, was moved to the Ministry of Investment, the commissioners for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade; and Environment, Gbenga Agbeyo; were not reappointed. Five commissioners were reappointed as Special Advisers while another one was inaugurated as a member of the state Local Government Commission. The new commissioners are Akin Omole (Information); Dr Oyebanji Filani (Health); Mr Akin Oyebode (Finance); Prince Olabode Adetoyi (Agriculture); Oladiran Adesua (Housing); Dr Olabimpe Aderiye (Education); Alhaja Mariam Ogunlade (Women Affairs); and Princess Iyabode Fakunle-Okhiemen (Environment). The new Special Advisers are Mrs Moji Fafure (Gender Empowerment); Prof. Francisca Aladejana (Basic, Secondary and Vocational/Technical Education); (Mr Foluso Daramola (Governor’s Office); Chief Olusoga Davies (Political Matters); Chief Folorunso Olabode (Community and Rural Development); Tope Ogunleye (Special Projects); and Mr Ayoola Owolabi (Investment). READ ALSO: Buhari laments ‘bitter, unnecessary quarrels’ in APC Also inaugurated were Prof Femi Akinwunmi as Chairman of the State University Basic Education Board and Mr Febisola Adewale, as member Local Government Service Commission. Fayemi, who charged the appointees to avoid any form of distraction in the discharge of their duties, said the exercise was in furtherance of his drive to reposition the administration for effective service delivery. The governor said, “We have recently carried out a midterm assessment of this administration and made a few changes in line with our performance and emerging reality towards refining our government agenda and strengthen our team. “This account for the appointment of new people into various positions of authority in the state. It also accounts for the re-designation of some ministries and the creation of new bureaus. “To those coming on board, I encourage you to imbibe our ethos which sees public office as a privilege and an opportunity for service and not an occasion for self-aggrandizement or pecuniary gain, I trust you will ensure that your conduct and performance justify the confidence we have placed in you and you will be good ambassadors of the administration in your various constituencies,” the governor said. The new Commissioner for Education, Aderiye, who responded on behalf of the appointees, expressed appreciation to Fayemi for finding them worthy of the opportunity and promised not to betray the confidence reposed in them.