The Senate on Thursday kicked against infringement on the Fiscal Responsibility Act by certain agencies of the Federal Government. Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, Solomon Adeola, and his counterpart in the Ethics and Privileges, Pius Akinyelure, faulted the agencies and the submission of the Director General Budget Offfice, Dr Ben Akabueze. Akabueze justified the revenue generation office deduction of fund beyond the statutory 20 per cent allowed by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. He spoke at the ongoing five-day Public Hearing on the 2021-2023 MTEF/FSP by heads of revenue generating agencies, organised by the Joint Senate Committee on Finance and Planning. Akabueze insisted that there was no breach of the Act, as he declared that such agencies got presidential approval from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to take from the revenue generated beyond their statutory limit. Adeola disagreed with him and submitted that the Fiscal Responsibility Act, a creation of the parliament, was not subordinate to a mere presidential discretionary power. He advised the Budget Office to initiate an Executive Bill, proposing an amendment of the Fiscal Responsibility Act rather than observing the law in the breach. The disagreement between the lawmakers and the DG, Budget Office was a fall out of the controversy over revenues generated by the Federal Inland Revenue Service last year and the specific amount it deducted. Akinyelure cautioned that henceforth, chief executive officers of revenue agencies should not trample on the existing Act. He said, “Where you have an issue with the law, you are supposed to come to the National Assembly to amend the law. “Anything administrative, it gives room for leakages and for things to happen and you cannot hold the agency CEO responsible. “When it is a matter of the law, you have the basis to punish defaulters by showing them the law they have defaulted. Administrative policies can be manipulated.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  