OLALEYE ALUKO Some southern Kaduna communities in the Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State have embarked on a seven-day prayers and fasting to call on God to intervene in the violence and killings in the areas. The fasting and prayers began on Monday, August 10, and will end on Sunday, August 16 (today), at the Evangelical Church Winning All Gospel Church in the Zonkwa area, according to an invitation leaflet obtained by our correspondent on Friday. “Zangon Kataf cries to God; 168 hours and seven days of agonising prayer and fasting for southern Kaduna from August 10 to 16. The grand finale will be at the ECWA Gospel Church, Zonkwa on Sunday, August 16, by 1pm. Kindly share,” it read. One of the programme’s organisers and Vice Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria in Zangon Kataf Local Government Area, Pastor Ango Makama, told our correspondent on Friday that the turnout had been massive even as the government had yet to support the victims of the incessant attacks. He said, “The turnout for the prayer meetings has been massive. People are coming out in their thousands. More people are also expected. I am with the National Christian Pilgrims Welfare Board for further discussions. “It is the whole LGA that is involved and we have the meetings going on in all our villages and communities. But on Sunday, we will all converge and we expect the triple of that number to gather. For now, the attacks have gone down. Since we started the prayer, there has been calm. The atmosphere has been calm and God has really come down to intervene. “On the communities that were recently attacked, the government has not really come to our support. Apart from the people and organisations bringing relief materials, the government has not really given attention to the attacked communities.” Zangon Kataf is one of the troubled LGAs in southern Kaduna, with its headquarters in the town of Zonkwa. The communities have undergone a attacks from invaders who killed residents, including women and children, and also burnt houses. On July 21, 10 people were killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen in an attack on Gora Gan community in the local government area. Seven people were said to have sustained injuries and rushed to a hospital in Zonkwa. The incident occurred less than 24 hours after gunmen attacked Kukum Daji community in the Kaura Local Government Area, a neighbouring local government area, killing over 20 persons. On August 6, about 22 people were killed in another round of attacks on communities in Zangon Kataf. Due to the violence, the Kaduna State Government had imposed a 24-hour curfew on the local government area in June, particularly in communities such as Apyia’Shyim, A’Piako, Atak’Mawei, and Kibori villages all in Atyap chiefdom of Zangon Kataf. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  