Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja DESPITE a shortage of bed spaces in the Federal Capital Territory, the Federal Government has failed to inaugurate the only purpose built isolation centre in Abuja, The PUNCH has learnt. Statistics obtained from the website of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on Wednesday showed that Abuja had the highest number of COVID-19 persons on admission in the country with a total of 3,172 hospitalised. The PUNCH learnt that only makeshift isolation centres were being used in Abuja, some of which include the National Hospital, Asokoro District General Hospital, the Accident and Emergency Ward of the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada; and the ThisDay Dome. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, had in March lamented that the permanent site being constructed by the NCDC at the UATH had not yet been completed. Six months after the Senate lamented the slow pace of work, however, it was learnt that the site had been completed but remained shut because it had not been fully equipped. When our correspondent visited the isolation centre known as the ‘ID Care Complex’ on Tuesday, it was observed that the Nigerian Rural Electrification Agency had lit up the facility while the doors were shut. Our correspondent was also informed that the laboratory had not yet been equipped. An official, who spoke to The PUNCH just outside the facility, said, “In the last six months, we have been working to ensure that this place is completed. The REA just connected the facility to electric power. That was what actually caused the delay. “The place is being furnished. All that remains now is a laboratory. Once that is done, the NCDC will hand over the facility to UATH.” A health worker told our correspondent that the Accident and Emergency Ward of the hospital, which had been converted to an isolation centre, was being overburdened. She said there was a need for the government to speed up the construction. Speaking, the Chairman of the Association of Resident Doctors in the hospital, Dr Bob Abah, in an interview with The PUNCH, said he was hopeful that the permanent site would be opened soon. Also, the Director-General of the NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, told our correspondent that he was awaiting the approval of the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire. However, the Spokesman for the Ministry of Health, Jimi Oyetomi, said he didn’t know when the permanent site would be inaugurated but promised to find out. Oyetomi had, however, yet to do so as of press time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com