Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has suspended its investigation of the alleged scam in a contract awarded by Nigerian Agip Oil Company valued at about $16m. The House Committee on Petroleum (Upstream), at its investigative hearing in Abuja on Wednesday, resolved to suspend the probe following the intervention by the Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Melee Kyari, on the matter. The committee had on July 29 summoned the NNPC, Oando, Agip and other multinational companies to appear and explain irregularities in a contract awarded to a Nigerian company, De Coon Services Limited. The Managing Director of De Coon Services Limited, Mr Nelson Onubogu, who petitioned the House, had told the committee that Agip owed him about $16m for a contract executed for the company. De Coon Services Limited had in a petition to the House, accused Agip of failing to pay $16.5m debt arising from what it described as a stopgap contract awarded to it in 2010 and which was executed but the firm was not paid. Onubogu alleged that he had been suppressed and intimidated to prevent him from getting paid. He further alleged that the power generators he supplied were being intentionally damaged as substances suspected to be salt were discovered in the engine oil after a test. Onubogu alleged that the multinational company breached all the contract agreements entered into between them as joint venture partners. According to him, despite interventions by the NNPC and other stakeholders, Agip refused to bulge but terminated the contract without paying his company. He said the contract was subsequently re-awarded to another company without due process. Agip had written to the committee, stating that it could not appear at the hearing it had also been invited to appear before the House Committee on Public Petitions on the same matter. Agip had in the letter said even if it decided to appear before the panel, it could only do so in September since it was not in operation at the moment as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Members of the committee, however, disagreed, insisting the oil giant must appear before them soon. At the continuation of the hearing on Wednesday, the committee’s Chairman, (Upstream), Musa Sarkin-Ada, stated that if the claims made against Agip were true, the matter should be settled amicably. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com