Olaleye Aluko and Adeyinka Olaseni Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Godwin Obaseki, has warned electorates in the state ahead of the September 19 election not to go home, but to stay and defend their votes to avoid any form of manipulation. The governor noted that the people must not listen to instructions of anyone to go home, adding that the development of the state was in their hands. Obaseki stated these on Friday while addressing supporters in Ward 6, Ukhuse in the Owan West Local Government Area of the state, during his reelection campaign rally in the LGA. The governor said, “On September 19, 2020, come out and vote massively for the PDP and make sure you stay back in your polling units to defend your vote to avoid manipulation. “Don’t listen to them when they ask you to go home or even threaten you. If you obey them, they will manipulate the results. “My coming to Ukhuse is homecoming; Four years ago, I couldn’t get to you people because of the bad road, but I made sure I constructed the road for easy transportation. Now you can move your commodities to the market and the next village for sales. “The development of Edo is in your hands. Come out with your Permanent Voters Cards and vote for the PDP and I will make sure I keep all my promises to you all.” A PDP chieftain, Kenneth Imasuangbon, at the rally, urged the people not to be intimidated by threats of violence, adding that they must rise up against political godfathers in the state. Meanwhile, the governor has approved outstanding promotions in the state public service. According to a letter, August 4, with Reference Number, HOS 563/2, the Head of Service, Anthony Okungbowa, said, “The Edo State Government has approved outstanding promotions in the state Public service. Ministries, Departments and Agencies are by this announcement directed to commence the process of the promotion exercise of eligible officers without delay.” Also, the immediate past Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Alhaji Kabiru Adjoto, has approached the Edo State High Court in Benin, to seek a restraining order to prevent his alleged imminent arrest. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that according to court documents, Adjoto is seeking protection of court to enforce his fundamental human rights and also prevent his “imminent arrest by some security agencies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com