Where do we place ICMS in the Nigerian financial services industry? The cash industry in Nigeria is relatively new and therefore just evolving and the CBN deserves credit for this development which aligns Nigeria with global best practice in currency operations. What we call the cash industry was part of what used to be called Branch and Currency Operations until it was excised and made a full Department of Currency Operations as part of the strategic and continuous efforts of the Central Bank of Nigeria to modernise the Nigeria financial industry. This move was both in recognition of the importance of cash and also to give vent and expression to the need to attract investments into the nascent cash industry. Before ICMS and other industry operators were licenced to operate, the CBN was the main operator and in that situation was subsidising the banking industry by providing most of the currency distribution and processing for Nigerian banks at highly reduced costs. By licencing new operators in the cash value chain, the CBN was adapting the Nigeria cash industry to global best practices because in other parts of the world, the distribution, processing, securing and even packing of cash are done by private entities while central banks typically concern themselves with issuance of new notes and destruction of unfit notes as well as setting the standards for private operators in the value chain and monitoring compliance with the standards. So, the Central Bank would set and enforce cash processing standards to enable easy and objective identification of counterfeits and unfit notes as well as notes that are fit for recirculation. To enable the CBN deploy resources and focus regulatory attention on these important roles was the main reason that ICMS and other operators were licenced to provide the services I listed earlier. The cash industry ecosystem is made up of cash-in-transit companies, of which there are nine licensed companies and two cash processing companies of which ICMS is one. The CIT companies essentially distribute cash from point to point, city to city, branch to branch, branch to CBN and retailers to banks. Before the CBN licensing, Nigerian banks used to distribute cash themselves, using their own vehicles mostly regular pick pp trucks that exposed the passengers and the cargo to armed robbery attacks that were rampant. Similarly, most banks processed their own cash and in doing so, the banks operated according to no standards in terms of CIT and Cash processing operations and were answerable to no authority since they were licenced to provide banking services and not cash handling services. What does your company actually save the banks if they don’t have to render this service you render? The central element of our value proposition is the inherent principle in shared services. This means that if I use the same resources or platform to service multiple clients efficiently, each of the clients spends less and I grow in scale and improve in efficiency continuously. This model is simple and trusted and validated by the success of several companies and industries in many parts of the world. However, we have had some poor records in Nigeria in this respect. Nigerian banks had in the past set up institutions that didn’t succeed in the end. You probably have heard about a collaboration between Nigerian banks that resulted in a company called the Pioneer Sorting Company Limited. It was set up in the 1980s and 1990s by some banks – First Bank, United Bank for Africa, and some others. They floated it then under the guidance of the CBN but it failed. You know Nigerian banks famously don’t cooperate with each other. They also set up another one called ATM Consortium. The purpose of the ATM Consortium was to create a shared platform to process industry wide ATM fit notes and perhaps even manage the roll out and maintenance of ATMs on behalf of Nigerian banks. This, again, failed. However, there is a recognition that a shared services platform is typically the right model for most industries but the devil is usually in the details – structure, governance, regulatory support, industry compliance and enforcement etc. Typically, currency operations constitute between 25 to 40 per cent of the cost of operations for most Nigerian banks depending upon the respective efficiency levels and geographic dispersion. You talked about some of the banks still operating in violation of the CBN guidelines that allows you to be the sole companies that handle cash distribution and processing. Can you give us an idea of the percentage of compliance in the industry? We have more banks in violation of this CBN policy. We are probably servicing about 30 per cent of the available market share. I sympathise with the CBN on this because capacity constraint exists among licensed CIT and cash processing companies like ourselves. And the CBN has a responsibility to maintain an orderly and safe financial system. So, the challenge is for us to ramp up capacity quickly in order to be able to strengthen the regulator’s hands to enforce compliance with the extant policies and guidelines without endangering the stability of the banking system. The truth is that because the banking industry in Nigeria is highly profitable, a lot of Nigerian banks don’t care about cost optimisation. There are several easy ways that banks make money in Nigeria. But hopefully, with the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences which will inevitably impact the revenue profile of banks, I am sure many of them are going to start rethinking their mode of operation. Many of them invest too much in cash management infrastructure – they have tellers, managers, security men, cash sorting machines, huge vaults, bullion vans, escort vehicles etc and a lot of others. That is not the business of a bank. A bank’s business is simply to do banking – collect deposits, lend money, make a profit from doing these. So, what do you want the regulator to do? To be honest, what the regulator should do is similar to what they do for banks. You know that whenever a Wonder Bank or unlicenced finance house starts to operates, the CBN always issues warnings to members of the public against them and at times, the CBN even works directly with the Nigeria Police and other security agencies to forcefully shut down such premises and arrest the illegal operators. The CBN doesn’t allow the Wonder Bank to operate because they have licensed commercial, merchant, mortgage, community banks to operate. So, if the CBN has licensed us as CIT and cash processing companies to operate in the cash management value chain, the same CBN should protect our business by forcefully and aggressively enforcing the guidelines. With that, the banks would be forced to work with us and there are several non-disruptive options of working with the banks to achieve the goal envisaged by the CBN in enabling the creation of the cash operations subsector. The problem is that the banks have infrastructure and operations that they are not licensed to undertake. And the licenced CIT and cash operations companies do not have the infrastructure to service the market as desired by the CBN. So, the CBN ought to mediate the situation by encouraging the banks to surrender the huge CIT and cash processing infrastructure at their disposal in obedience to the dictates of extant policies and guidelines and also in realisation of the need to focus on their core business. You said cash is going nowhere, why did you say so? We belong to an international association which sponsors research into various segments of the payment space including cash in circulation in various countries and across the world. In the last few years the statistics show that in European Common Market area and Asia particularly, the cash in circulation has been growing steadily and in places like Africa, the growth is even more on a year-to-year basis. This is in spite of the rise in digital and card payments. People were surprised because simultaneously, e-Payment was rising; cheque payment was declining and Internet payment was also rising. One explanation for the continuous popularity of cash as a medium of exchange and value storage is that there is a correlation between crisis/tension and rise in cash volumes. People tend to seek to hold cash in times of uncertainty and crisis and as the world continues to witness one crisis after another in different continents, it is no wonder that the volume of cash in circulation has continued to rise. Most central banks across the world know this and understand the trend very well. So till tomorrow, cash is still the greatest store of value. If gold was available to carry safely in small pieces, maybe it would be competing with cash. Now with the COVID-19 pandemic one expects this trend to endure into the long term. Statistically, if you look at the CBN reports on cash in circulation, it remains high though the CBN has in recent years taken laudable steps to control the rise. That is because at the end of every transaction chain, whether it is e-payment or Point of Sale, there is always cash at the end of it. So, the frequency of cash payment may reduce, but the ultimate value of cash remains a constant and this is one of the issues that engages the expert attention of central banks around the world. Even in the United States of America with all the advances in e-payment and card transactions, significant cash transaction volumes exist. In fact, the second largest cash processing company in the world is based in the USA and it has several hundred CIT vehicles and cash sorting centres in the USA and Canada. That is America that is easily identified as an almost cashless society! What is the medium to long-term vision of ICMS? Our plan is to support the industry growth aspiration of the CBN by solving the problem of cash distribution and cash processing capacity constraint so that ICMS and other licensed operators in the sector can benefit from a more aggressive enforcement of extant policies and guidelines by the CBN. To this end, we plan to have nine additional cash processing centres across Nigeria in the next 12 to18 months and expand our CIT fleet of armoured vehicles substantially. Our ultimate goal is to be listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in the medium to long term and we are working hard and actively on these plans at this time. We understand the business; we are the only licensed operator that attracted a foreign joint venture partner in this subsector and the partnership with the foreign company earned us the undisputed knowledge leaders in the Nigeria market and we still have that technical partnership. We see what they are doing in South Africa and the kind of value they are adding to the financial ecosystem in South Africa. That is exactly what we aspire to replicate in Nigeria. That is what is driving our expansion plan. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 