Sampson Itode, P/Harcourt Scores of protesting residents of Obosi Community in the Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local  Government Area of Rivers State were on Monday brutalised by soldiers while dispersing them from the facility of an international oil firm. The residents had on August 3, 2020 shut down the OB-OB gas plant, operated by the Nigeria Agip Oil Company, after the oil firm failed to implement a Memorandum of Understanding it had with the host community. It was learnt that following the takeover of the facility by the community and the halting of the firm’s operation, soldiers were sent to evict the protesters and in the process injured scores of them. The youth President of Obosi community, Pureheart Ekeukwu, told The PUNCH that the military men were hired by the oil firm to intimidate the community members. Ekeukwu stated that the soldiers invaded the facility when the protesters from the community were sleeping around 12am on Monday and started brutalising the people. He said, “Agip mobilised men of the Nigerian Army to drive out the community members protesting the years of neglect they have been suffering. “They (soldiers) came and started beating up old men and women. They stripped old women naked and forced them into their vehicle.. “It is an act of irresponsibility for the military to strip old women naked. We are under panic now but we will not call off the protest. We will end this protest when they meet our demands.” The youth leader further alleged that a select few from Omoku town in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Area of the state were conniving with the oil firm to frustrate their demands. When contacted, the spokesman of the 6 Division, Nigeria Army, Port Harcourt, Col. Charles Ekeocha, promised to comment on the development later. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  