With restriction of official foreign exchange, maize importers will spend more in sourcing the commodity from other countries. IFE OGUNFUWA examines the additional expenses Importers of maize may have to pay about N28.31bn annually to import the agricultural product into the country to meet Nigeria’s 400,000 metric tonnes production shortfall. Investigations showed that the importers would be paying extra N5.72bn for the commodity as against N22.59bn they would have spent if they were able to access foreign exchange at the official rate. The Central Bank of Nigeria recently extended foreign exchange restriction to importation of maize/corn, making it 44 items affected by its forex restriction policy. The apex bank, in a circular to all authorised dealers and the general public, explained that the forex restriction on maize was aimed to increase local production of the commodity, stimulate economic recovery, protect the livelihoods of rural farmers and provide employment. The circular signed by the Director, Trade and Exchange Department, CBN, OS Nnaji, stated, “As part of efforts by the Central Bank of Nigeria to increase local production, stimulate a rapid economic recovery, safeguard rural livelihoods and increase jobs which were lost as a result of the ongoing COVlD-19 pandemic, authorised dealers are hereby directed to discontinue the processing of Forms M for the importation of maize/corn with immediate effect.” This means that importers of the agricultural product would not be able to source for forex to import maize from the CBN at the official rate of N379/dollar but at parallel market rate of N475/dollar. According to Food and Agriculture Organisation data, Nigeria’s estimated maize production for 2020 is 11.1 million metric tonnes while importers are expected to bring in 400,000 metric tonnes to bridge the production shortfall in the country. The global price of maize stood at an average $149 per metric tonne as of June 2020, according to the FAO data. At an unofficial exchange rate of N475 to a dollar, maize importers would source for the commodity at an equivalent of N70,775 per metric tonne from other countries. In order to import 400,000 metric tonnes of maize this year, the importers would spend a total of N28.31bn. Nigeria is a leading maize producer in Africa with its large population depending on it as the main staple food. The farm produce also serves as a major raw material used in feed production for poultry farmers. The decision of the CBN to restrict forex access for maize importation has been applauded by maize farmers. The President, Maize Growers Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria, Dr Edwin Uche, said that the move by the apex bank towards a ban on the importation of maize was long overdue. According to him, the move will help local farmers to get reasonable pricing and boost their capacity to grow the farm produce. On the other hand, poultry farmers have condemned the decision, saying farmers who recorded huge losses during the lockdown imposed to manage the spread of coronavirus had been affected by the rising cost of maize. According to them, a metric tonne of maize in the country is currently sold for N160,000 as against N100,000 before the COVID-19 crisis, indicating a 60 per cent increase in price. As part of the government’s support to boost maize production in the country, the CBN under its Anchor Borrowers’ Programme launched its nationwide distribution of farm inputs to maize farmers for the 2020 wet season farming in Abuja in June. The apex bank said that the programme, which aims to support 70,000 maize farmers across the country, has the ultimate goal of boosting maize production in the country. The Head, Development Finance Office, CBN, Mr Nuhu Muazu, urged farmers to make judicious use of the incentives to boost maize production and ensure food security in the country, while distributing the farm inputs to farmers. “For years, we have been using our hard-earned foreign exchange to import food that we can produce and by doing so, we are importing unemployment.” He told farmers that the funds given to them were not free money and should be used for the purpose for which it was disbursed. According to him, the participating banks are working with the CBN to lend to farmers at nine per cent per annum. Muazu stressed that the principal and the interest on the loan would be repaid by the farmers after the crops had been harvested. He said, “Use the inputs, harvest and pay back to give other people the opportunity to access the loans.” Speaking on the expected output of maize farmers this year, the President, Maize Farmers Association of Nigeria, Bello Abubakar, said due to support maize farmers were receiving from the government, the association was expecting an output of about 25 million tonnes of maize. This is 25 per cent increase in maize yield from 20 million tonnes of maize harvested by the farmers in 2019. Abubakar said with the improved yield this year, more maize processors and manufacturers would be able to source for the farm produce locally. He said, “Last year, we produced 20 million tonnes of maize. Because the CBN is providing support to farmers, we are expecting about 25 million tonnes this year. The support will increase and enhance the production of maize farmers. “Not all maize farmers are receiving the support but those who applied and have been verified by the CBN and are free from any encumbrance; they will receive loan for the bank.” Abubakar said the Federal Government through the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development regulates the market price of maize by considering the prevailing market price in different markets across the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 