Dayo Ojerinde A former Chief Medical Director of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Prof. Akin Osibogun, has said COVID-19 patients not willing to release themselves for treatment lack orientation. Osibogun, in an interview with our correspondent, noted that when COVID-19 patients turn up for treatment at isolation centres they prevent the spread of the virus. “When people test positive for COVID-19, a large percentage of them will probably have mild symptoms, but a small percentage will have severe symptoms; about 20 per cent will be moderate but they will recover. But then, you don’t know who suddenly turns down the curve. What the Lagos State Government is trying to do is to put in place a community-based management strategy for home treatment of COVID-19 patients whose environments are conducive. “In other words when a person test positive, we look at his home environment, if he has a flat by himself and has enough rooms in his house, he can receive treatment at home. But if he is leaving with other people in the room, we will have to recommend such a person to move to the isolation centre. “For instance, it is not safe for COVID-19 patients living in overcrowded areas to receive treatment at home. People don’t know that the reason for isolation is not only for treatment, it is also to prevent further transmission of the virus. Some people think because they don’t have major symptoms of COVID-19, they feel that there is no reason to go to the isolation wards. They need to protect their families and be isolated to stop the further spread of the virus,” Osibogun said. The public health expert added that many people who have died of COVID-19 might have had underlining health issues. “Remember that a former senator that died recently of COVID-19-related ailment; he was probably hypertensive and diabetic which might have affected some of his body organs when then the virus set in. To avoid that, since we don’t know who can become critical or severe, it is better to prevent it. The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, had on Monday, via his twitter handle, @ProfAkinAbayomi, said 1,192 active cases in the state were yet to turn up for admission in COVID-19 Lagos care centres. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  