Godwin Isenyo The National Secretary of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria and leader of the Throneroom Ministry, Kafanchan, Dr Emmanuel Kure, has sought for the engagement of genuine Fulani leaders in peace talks to end the spate of killings in the southern region of Kaduna State. Kure also asked the President, Maj Gen Muhammadu Buhari (retd), and other politicians to stop speaking for the Fulani “if they are serious about resolving the problems in the country and the age-long Southern Kaduna crisis.” The cleric spoke as a guest speaker at the recent grand finale of the prayer and indoor protest session organised by the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria, held at the Evangelical Church of Winning All in Kaduna. He faulted any peace talks initiated without the involvement of the victims of the attacks in the southern part of the state, querying how a peace meeting could be held “without inviting those people whose relations were killed.” He also noted that those involved in the peace talks regarding the Southern Kaduna killings were doing so for certain interests. He said, “It is unfortunate that those in government are engaging in peace talks on Kaduna for pecuniary motives and I insist that they are presently doing all the talks because they have interests.” READ ALSO: How I jumped out of my burning car, escaped death — Broadcaster whose vehicle was engulfed in flames on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway Kure added that “in the dialogue, they have to call the real leaders of Fulani to come and sit on that confab as an entity because they claim they have the largest population in Nigeria and since they have, they desire a big table or sit on that confab and talk to the nation. “The President should stop speaking for them. Politicians should stop speaking for them because they are the reasons this problem has persisted. “Therefore, they must bring them to the table. I want to see a Fulani man standing there as the Fulani representative at the next national meeting.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 