Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday, joined other West African leaders in another extraordinary summit aimed at finding lasting solutions to the crisis in Mali. Buhari participated in the virtual meeting from the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Chairman, Economic Community of West African States and President of Niger Republic, Mahmadou Issoufu, presided over the second virtual summit to be held on Mali crisis since the military deposed the elected President, Ibrahim Keita, who later announced his resignation. The junta had earlier this week told ECOWAS envoy to Mali, former President Goodluck Jonathan and other representatives of the regional bloc that it wanted a three-year rule before handing over power to a democratically elected government. At the summit, Buhari and his contemporaries resolved that the process of restoring democracy to Mali must be completed within 12 months. They also told the military junta in the West African country that the transition government must be led by civilians. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in a statement titled, ‘Mali can’t afford to stand alone, says President Buhari, backs 12 months set ECOWAS for return to democratic order,’ said Buhari joined his colleagues in charging the military junta in Mali to set an acceptable time table for return to democratic government, since the country cannot afford to stand alone in the sub-region. READ ALSO: Two dead as helicopter crashes into Lagos building He quoted Buhari as saying that “I am, however, personally happy to hear of the release from detention of the former President of Mali, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who is reported to be in good condition. “The disposition of the new leadership to free the remaining senior officials is noted as this should contribute to the renewed sense of belonging to the Malian people. “With regards to other areas being negotiated, Nigeria believes that the people of Mali and the military leaders need to appreciate the fragility of their country and the imminent danger which it poses to the citizens of Mali as well as the ECOWAS sub-region.” The President was further reported to have said that the military leadership should be flexible in negotiations by putting the interest of all Malians and the harmony of the sub-region into consideration. He added, “For the people of Mali, specifically the leadership, embracing Democracy and Good Governance is crucial to the country’s political stability. Mali cannot, therefore, afford to stand alone, hence the need to come to terms with the realities of an acceptable and workable transition compact that inspires the confidence of all Malians. “Meanwhile, I urge the military leadership to consider: the immediate release of all the remaining senior government officials in detention, without pre-conditions; a transition process, to be completed in not more than 12 months, and which shall include the representatives of Malian stakeholders. “This is a critical consideration for the new government to enjoy the cooperation and collaboration of regional and international community, and to allow the easing of sanctions imposed on Mali.”