John Alechenu and Leke Baiyewu The Peoples Democratic Party has asked the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to step aside for allegedly frustrating investigations into executive corruption. It alleged that the decision of the Speaker to shut down the sitting of various committees investigating malfeasance in the executive branch of government, is a deliberate design to cover the stench of corruption oozing out of the APC-led administration. This was contained in a statement titled “PDP Berates Gbajabiamila For Frustrating Corruption Investigation in the House of Representatives … Asks Speaker to Step Aside,” signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, on Saturday. The PDP said, “If the Honoruable Speaker is inclined towards allowing the covering of corruption, against the purpose for which he was elected to lead the House, then, he should take a bow and step aside.” Ologbondiyan described the shutting down of ongoing probes by the APC leadership of the House as a clear example of corruption fighting back from within the government circle, which must be condemned by all Nigerians. He said the PDP “notes that such incursion into the activities of the committees is to quench the fight against corruption as well as to frustrate whistle blowers just because APC has become an ocean of corruption where the members are swimming. “It is clear that the shutdown directive is targeted at frustrating revelations from ongoing investigations on the $500bn foreign loan from China, particularly as it relates to the mortgaging of our nation’s sovereignty to China. “This is in addition to the investigations into the humongous corruption in government agencies including the Niger Delta Development Commission, the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund the N300bn unremitted revenue to the federation account as well as allegations of corruption in government earnings and the expenditure in Ministries, Department and Agencies under the APC.” The party said it was unfortunate that under the Gbajabiamila-led leadership, curbing executive recklessness which the power of oversight confers on legislators has just “been maimed through a forced holiday on the members of the respective committees and their Chairmen.” It also described as distressing that the APC leadership of the House is breaching parliamentary rules, practices and procedures to shield APC leaders and their cronies who have been fleecing our nation. The PDP spokesperson further said “Our party therefore holds that any parliament that deliberately frustrates its statutory responsibility to call the activities of the executive to question has lost the essence of its own existence. The leadership that led it into such constitutional suicide must be held culpable. “Indeed, never in our parliamentary history have committee activities been suspended or shut down on the ground of holiday or suspension of plenary. “For us in the PDP, it is shocking that the APC leadership of the House of Representatives could  by any consideration shut down, its legislative investigation, which is exclusively vested on it under sections 88 and 89 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), on the guise of being on break. Such an action is calamitous to our democracy.” The party commended its caucus as well as the caucuses of other opposition parties for taking a stand against corruption and striving to ensure that the APC does not sell Nigerians into slavery with its reckless foreign borrowings. An official close to the leadership of the House, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, as he was not authorised to respond to the PDP, dismissed the call by the party. The official said, “PDP as a party issued a statement directed to the leadership of the House, which is beyond the Speaker.” When reminded that Gbajabiamila is the leader of the leadership, the official said, “The leadership represents the House. The opinion was directed at the leadership, saying they should rescind their decision. When they (PDP) said Gbajabiamila should step aside, it is only because they (party) wanted to be mischievous. If not, they cannot say it is National Assembly and then say Gbajabiamila alone should step aside.” When contacted, Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Publicity, Mr Lanre Lasisi, declined to comment. He referred our correspondent to the Chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Mr Benjamin Kalu. Efforts to get Kalu to respond to the PDP, however, proved abortive. He did not pick calls made to him and he had yet to reply a message sent to him via WhatsApp as of press time on Saturday. Attempts to get a response from the Spokesperson of the House of Representatives, were futile. Calls to his mobile telephone number were neither picked nor returned. A response to a text message sent to him was still being awaited as at the time of filing this report at 11.30pm.    ,, Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 