John Alechenu, Abuja The Chairman of the All Progressive Congress Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni, has charged the Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led Ondo State Governorship Election National Campaign Council to work assiduously to ensure the state remains within the APC family. Buni made the call while inaugurating the campaign council at the APC National Secretariat, in Abuja, on Saturday. He expressed confidence that the people of Ondo, who kept faith with the party four years ago, were willing to support Governor Rotimi Akeredolu again. Buni said, “You will all recall that four years ago, the good people of Ondo State generously voted our party, the All Progressives Congress for an initial four-year mandate. “I am happy to state that the chairman and members of the council were carefully selected based on their personal records of hard work, proven integrity and commitment to the ideals of our dear party. READ ALSO: Lagos APC chieftain, Lanre Razak, dies at 74 “I have no doubt in my mind that the rich cream of personalities on this council, with vast electioneering experience, would once again secure the mandate of the people of Ondo State, for the party and its candidate.” He also told the council members, “The party and its supporters across the country have enormous confidence in your ability to succeed. “You are, therefore, encouraged to always engage in teamwork and collective participation. We are fully confident that by the grace of God, you will succeed and do us proud. “Let me use this occasion to assure the good people of Ondo state that your investment in the party in this election will consolidate the achievements recorded in the last four years. I want to assure you that APC will not renege in its drive to build a peaceful and prosperous Ondo State that will be the pride of all.” Akeredolu, who is seeking reelection on the platform of the APC, would face Eyitayo Jegede of the Peoples Democratic Party, amongst other contenders, in the October 10 governorship election in the state. The PDP candidate, who lost to the incumbent in 2016, said God asked him to challenge Akeredolu again.