Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union on Wednesday alleged that 11 persons, including a village head and his 97 year-old mother, were killed in a fresh attack in the southern part of Kaduna State. According to the union, the gunmen suspected to be Fulani militia, carried out the attacks in Zango-Kataf, Kajuru and Kachia local government areas of the state. The National Public Relations Officer of SOKAPU, Mr. Luka Binniyat, in a statement said contrary to the state governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai’s claim, 109 communities in four Southern Kaduna LGAs had been taken over by Fulani militia. The SOKAPU statement reads in part, “On 18th of August, 2020, amidst a rigidly imposed 24-hour curfew that is 63 days today, armed Fulani militia invaded Unguwan Gankon village in the Zangon Kataf LGA and killed two persons and burnt seven houses. Neighbours, however, came out and the murderers fled. The name of the victim are Kefas Malachy Bobai, a 30-year old farmer and father of three and Miss Takama Paul, 16, a student. “On the 16th August,  Pastor  Adalchi Usman,  39, and father of  two was murdered.  Usman, who was pastor  of  ECWA  Church,  Unguwan/Madaki,  in Kajuru LGA, was  ambushed while in a commercial vehicle. “The killers came from the bush and started shooting at the car. Also killed were, Mariah Na’Allah of   Unguwan Madaki;   Shekari from Unguwa Ali – a native of  Anchuna village, Zangon Kataf LGA and Ezekiel Maikasa a native of  Gadanaji in Kajuru LGA.” “Then on the same night of 16th August, 2020, Bugai village near Banikanwa in Kachia LGA was attacked by armed Fulani militia. “The village Head, Dan’azumi Musa, 67 was killed.  His siblings, Aniya Musa, 60 including his very aged mother, Kande Musa, 97 and junior sister Angelina Irmiya,  45 were killed.” On the occupied  Southern Kaduna land SOKAPU said, “As of today, August 19h, 2020, at least 109 communities scattered in four LGAs of Southern Kaduna  have been displaced and taken over by armed Fulani militia unchallenged by the state. “There are at least 50,000 IDPs leaving in several camps in Southern Kaduna and with relations  all because their villages are either too unsafe to return or  have been taken over by Fulani militia. The Kaduna State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, however, said, “Alright, I will find out get back to you.” However, as of press time, he had yet to call back as promised. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  