Dayo Ojerinde The Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Mr Femi Adesina, has advised journalists in the country to write books on their experiences and encounters on the job. Adesina said this on Sunday at the virtual presentation of two books written by the Publisher and Editor-in-Chief of Yes International magazine, Mr Azuh Arinze. The books were titled, ‘Success is Not Served A La Carte’ and ‘Encounters – Lessons from My Journalism Career.’ Adesina said, “Journalists must write books; it used to be that all over the world, the best writers, biographers, creative writers and the best authors generally were journalists. “I want to thank Azuh for showing and reminding us that we owe the country books. Well, I’m on it, I’ve done it for five years, whenever it ends I think I have enough experience, I’ve seen enough to be able to document what I saw. Let every journalist do things like that, let us write books.” Arinze said the books were written to contribute to the body of knowledge. “The two books are products of my desire and believe in expanding my coast as a reporter. Therefore, I will never take for granted my interviewees and others who served as my primary sources for these amazing books. “Since joining the noble journalism profession, I’ve had the opportunity of seeing and meeting the very best people and I’m indeed grateful to God. That said, I must say this virtual launch is essential to create more awareness about these two publications and again to announce to the world the books are now available,” he said. The reviewer, Mr Emeka Opara, who is the Vice President, Corporate Communications and CSR at Airtel Nigeria, said the author was generous to the readers with the way he plotted the stories to make them free-flowing and easy to grasp. He said, “Sixty stories, all very well told and I found all of them simply delighting; from the opening shot which was a modified version of how Azuh met his wife to the last part where he interviewed Dayo Olomu, Azuh burned his energy into touch lighting the lessons we should learn from these encounters.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com