• Traffic robber operating with fake pistol nabbed Deji Lambo The body of a yet-to-be-identified man has been recovered by men of the Lagos State Police Command by the rail line in the Ijora-Badia area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that passers-by in the area saw the man lying motionless beside the rail line. It was learnt that security agents, including neighbourhood guards and policemen attached to the Ijora Badia Police Division, were contacted to rescue the man. It was gathered that as the policemen were about to take the man to hospital, they found a container of an insecticide by his side. This discovery was said to have aroused the suspicion that the man might have consumed the substance in the container. The victim, who was rushed to hospital for urgent treatment, was pronounced dead by the doctor on duty. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said some good Samaritans rushed the victim to hospital, where he was pronounced dead, adding that the corpse had been deposited in a mortuary for autopsy. Elkana said, “On August 1, 2020, around 9am, we received a piece of information that a male adult with no means of identification was found lying unconscious by the rail line in Ijora-Badia; an insecticide container was found on him, hence it was suspected that he fell into unconsciousness after consuming the substance in the container. “He was immediately rushed by sympathisers to hospital, where he was pronounced dead. His corpse has been deposited in a mortuary for autopsy; further developments will be communicated.” Meanwhile, two suspected traffic robbers, Ishola Taye and Adebayo Oluwafemi, have been arrested by policemen attached to the Ilupeju Division of the command for allegedly terrorising the Onipanu and Anthony areas of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that Ishola was attempting to dispossess passengers in a commercial vehicle of their valuables at the Onipanu bus stop when policemen on routine patrol accosted him. Elkana said a fake pistol used for the operation was recovered from Ishola, adding that the suspect would be charged. He stated, “On August 14, 2020, around 7.50am, while on routine patrol on the Ikorodu Road, around Fadeyi, a team of anti-crime patrol personnel led by ASP Aludo Patrick accosted one Ishola Taye, 24, who attempted to dispossess a passenger of her valuables at the Onipanu bus stop; the suspect took to his heels and was later caught. “During a search, one toy Beretta pistol designed like a normal pistol was recovered. The suspect confessed to the crime.” Oluwafemi was similarly arrested while robbing a passenger of her phone at the Anthony bus stop on the Ikorodu Road. “Both Ishola and Oluwafemi have been transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad and will be charged for the crime. They are among the notorious criminals terrorising users of the road,” Elkana stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 