DAUD OLATUNJI A governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 election in Ogun State, Senator Buruji Kashamu, is dead. Kashamu, who also represented Ogun East Senatorial District between 2015 and 2019, died of COVID-19 on Saturday of COVID-19 at the age of 62. The Shodipe Kashamu family of Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State, announced the death of the patriarch of the family, Senator Kashamu. The family made the announcement in a statement issued by the Media Adviser to Kashamu, Austin Oniyokor, on Saturday evening. The statement stated that Kashamu’s remains would be interred on Sunday at 12 noon at his Ijebu-Igbo country home, according to Islamic rites. The statement read, “The Shodipe Kashamu family of Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State, has announced the death of the patriarch of the family, Senator Buruji Kashamu. “Kashamu, 62, died today (Saturday) at a private hospital in Lagos, after a brief illness. “His remains will be interred by 12 noon tomorrow, Sunday, 9th August, 2020, in his Ijebu-Igbo country home, in accordance with Islamic rites.” Murray-Bruce on his verified Twitter handle – @benmurraybruce, said, “I have just lost my good friend of forever to #COVID19. Until his death, Sen. Buruji Kashamu and I were inseparable. He died today at First Cardiology Consultants, in Lagos. May his gentle soul rest in peace. I pray his family and loved ones the fortitude to bear this heavy loss.” Meanwhile, Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, and former governor of the state, Gbenga Daniel, have expressed shock over the demise of Kashamu on Saturday. Abiodun, in a statement released in Abeokuta on Saturday by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, described Kashamu’s passing  as one death too many and a devastating blow to the nation’s political family generally. Abiodun said: “I received the sad news of the passing of Senator Buruji Kashamu today, August 8, 2020, with a deep pain and grief that words cannot capture. On behalf of my family, the government and good people of Ogun State, I convey our deepest condolences. “His demise further diminishes the tribe of my close political associates. He was a large-hearted politician and courageous fighter for whatever cause he believed in.” Daniel in his condolence message described the death of the PDP stalwart as a rude shock. He noted that despite all the political disagreements and conflicts between them, he was able to reconcile with Kashamu before his death. He said, “I received with shock the news of the death of Senator Buruji Kasamu, who represented the Ogun East Senatorial District in the Red Chambers between 2015 and 2019. “I pray for his repose to find peace with his Maker and for his family to find the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” Also, the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party has described the death of Kashamu as shocking. The National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, who spoke to our correspondent, said it was sad that the senator died when the nation and his state needed his services. “His death is shocking. It is painful and I must say that the nation would miss him.  Our party would also miss him. He was a good family man. I pray that the good Lord will be with the family he left behind,” Secondus said. Reuben Abati, a former presidential aide and runner mate to Kashamu in the 2019 governorship election in Ogun, said he was completely heartbroken by news of his death. He said, “He enjoyed giving other people opportunities. He was humorous, kind-hearted, large-hearted and genial.” Mallam Abba Kyari, the late Chief of Staff to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and a former Governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, also died from COVID-19 complications. Other high profile Nigerians that have also died of COVID-19 include a former Managing Director of Petroleum Products Marketing Company, Mr Suleiman Achimugu; a senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Bayo Osinowo and the Ondo State Commissioner for Health, Dr Wahab Adegbenro. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 