ABIODUN NEJO and JAMES ABRAHAM The Plateau State Government and the National Emergency Management Agency have warned dwellers in flood-prone areas in the state to vacate their homes over impending flood disaster. The Executive Secretary of the Plateau State Emergency Management Agency, Mrs Rosslyn Dakwar, gave the warning in a statement on Saturday. She listed the affected council areas under the risk of severe flooding as Barkin Ladi, Pankshin, Jos South, Jos North, Jos East, Kanke and Mangu. She said “the 2020 annual flood outlook has among others captured some local government areas in Plateau State as probable flood risk areas. These are Barkin Ladi, Pankshin, Jos South, Jos North, Jos East, Kanke and Mangu local government areas. “By this, citizens living around flood-prone areas of the state are advised to relocate immediately to safeguard their lives and property as there could be a possible overflow of rivers that pass through some communities and will most likely result in heavy flooding.” Similarly, Head of Operations, Ekiti NEMA Office (in charge of Ekiti, Ondo and Osun states), Olusegun Afolayan, said Ado, Irepodun/Ifelodun, Ijero and Ikere council areas of the state with population of over one million were among the 102 local government areas across the country predicted to experience flooding this year. Afolayan, who spoke in Ado-Ekiti during a programme tagged ‘Sensitisation and awareness campaign on flooding preparedness, response and mitigation,’ advised residents to engage in behaviours that would prevent flooding. The Nigerian Metereological Agency and Nigerian Hydrological Services Agency listed Ekiti among the 28 states of the federation that would be heavily flooded by the rains expected between August and October. Afolayan, said, “We are here to sensitise the people on the need to be proactive by not dumping waste indiscriminately in the gutter or public places and for those living in flood-prone areas to vacate such environments.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  