What led you to start a career in management consultancy and corporate leadership? My driving principle through life has been that people cannot become better at what they do until they become better at who they are. Therefore, helping people become better at who they are led me to the path of developing leadership, innovative and creative competence in people and also helping organisations achieve their corporate objectives through their people. I believe people should be bridges that help others become better. My experiences and interactions with the young and old have always been about enabling them to navigate through their challenges and helping them achieve their desired results. What are your qualifications? I completed my secondary education at Lagos State Model College, Kankon. I went on to study Education and Economics at the University of Ibadan (Oyo State). I also have a MBA in Management Consultancy from the University of Wales, United Kingdom. What has been your experience as the co-founder of Rellies Works? As co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, I direct the development of the organisation’s short-term and long-term strategies. I also communicate and ensure the implementation of our mission. I provide leadership, mentorship and support to our internal team and partners as well as managing the overall operations and resources of the company and ensuring our corporate objectives are met. It has been a challenging yet phenomenal experience getting to impact the lives of people and organisations in the capacity that we do. What were some of the challenges you encountered when you started your career? I have had the privilege of working across some key industries including banking, oil and gas and the professional service space before transiting into entrepreneurship. At the commencement of my career in the banking sector, I struggled to adjust to the new experience, as the university did not really prepare me for the reality of the workplace. What do you think is lacking in Nigerian entrepreneurs? If you go to the swimming pool for the first time, I am sure you would not dive into the deep end of the pool without swimming aids. Unfortunately, I see so many entrepreneurs in Nigeria setting up businesses without acquiring the requisite skills and knowledge of managing and growing a business.  I was also a victim of this too in the early days of my business. Entrepreneurs need to move beyond passion towards understanding the fundamentals of business development. Entrepreneurs should learn and invest in the development of crucial aspects of business such as sales, structure, planning, finance, marketing, leadership and technology. They should also get mentors who can help them navigate the journey of entrepreneurship. What is the importance of having mentors and coaches before towing a career path? Coaching and mentoring, although different resources, are both tremendously instrumental in the achievement of an individual’s success. A mentor can pass on knowledge, experience and open doors to otherwise out-of-reach opportunities while a coach, through the use of a variety of styles, skills and techniques, helps to improve individual or group performance. Coaches support individuals through the exploration of their needs, motivations, desires, skills and thought processes to assist the individual in making real, lasting change. Navigating growth without these resources can be frustrating, lonely and painstakingly long. What are the secrets of being a successful management consultant? Consultancy is a challenging job and most people will fall at some point. However, those with the biggest ambitions, motivation and grit will stay and excel. Beyond a high aspiration, a successful management consultant must be able to communicate value and results rather than selling services. People care about the results, not just one’s accomplishments. A consultant has to be a thirsty learner. One cannot be a casual or passive learner because everything is changing by the minute. If one is not learning and adapting on the go, one would be left for dead. A successful management consultant should also focus on building relationships, not just revenues. Also, the ability to manage and deploy resources effectively is one that every successful management consultant cannot do without. What are your thoughts about unemployment in Nigeria? The system has failed the youth in terms of providing education, opportunities, enabling environment for businesses to thrive, infrastructure and other things. However, young people can either wallow in pain or start ‘creating’ their destinies.  As regards unemployment in Nigeria, a significant mindset change has to happen and there must be a transition from job hunting to legitimate job creation, and a leap from poverty alleviation to prosperity creation.  Unemployment is going to keep rising if the status quo remains. There are numerous untapped opportunities in the land and with the proliferation of technology, there has never been a better time when our destinies lie in our own hands. If you have a mobile phone and data, you have something valuable. Brick and mortar structures are eroding due to technology. There are many businesses one can engage in to make clean income. The average Nigerian thinks resources, yet resourcefulness is the key to unlocking potentials and creating wealth. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, some organisations have had to downsize. What is your advice to job seekers and people who have lost their jobs? There is no doubt that these are uncertain times and job seekers are not left out of feeling the heat. However, it is important to note that even with the uncertainties, opportunities still abound. Businesses are still employing people. I have sat on over 10 recruitment panels between March and now. The fate of job seekers lies in their hands. Businesses are opening and restructuring their operating models and that would require new skills and competencies. It would be fallacious for job seekers to assume the skills required pre-COVID is still the same. Employers are looking for creative, innovative, technologically savvy team players who understand the realities of today’s volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous world and are able to solve problems creatively. Therefore, job seekers have to upskill, invest in developing skills such as problem-solving, creativity, digital prowess, adaptability, resilience and leadership. Post-COVID for job seekers would be beyond fancy certificates. It would certainly be about value and how well they can prove the value they claim. Virtual meetings and conferences are the new norm. How effective are the results compared to physical interactions? Nothing beats physical interactions when it comes to conferences and meetings, especially when it comes to engagement. However, our new norm is about adaptability. There was a time we didn’t think it was possible to work from home effectively, but here we are. The LinkedIn Workforce Confidence Index shows that 55 per cent of respondents now think their industries can be effective when people are working remotely. In digital organisations, 75 per cent of people endorse the idea that remote work and effective operation can go hand in hand. To ensure effectiveness, facilitators and programme coordinators need to ensure they facilitate engagement, as a rule of thumb, when facilitating programmes on video-enabled platforms. What are the most important lessons you’ve learnt over the years? I have learnt a lot of lessons on the job. Facilitating change through corporate workshops can be extremely challenging as facilitators are sometimes under immense pressure to deliver their A-game back to back and sometimes, one has to work with a fatigued audience, work interruptions, or even a technical challenge. Excellence is an immense value which holds me to really high standards and for this reason, I could be quite hard on myself when things do not go as planned. I have learnt, however, to accept that I cannot control everything and rather than worry when the unexpected happens, I simply cut myself some slack and look for creative ways to make things work. Also, I have learnt that nobody will give one a seat at the table. One has to show that one deserves a spot. What’s your advice to people who have not found their passion or career paths? My advice would be for them to keep investing in self-awareness endeavours that can help them discover more of themselves. However, whatever they find to do at the moment should be done passionately. In the course of your career, were there times your abilities were questioned as a woman? I think there is always that time in a career woman’s life where stereotyping is activated either boldly or sublimely. I remember we had to execute a big workshop for a company. When I met the CEO for the first time, he was surprised I was a woman. Without giving much thought, he asked, “Madam, are you sure you have the power to do this”? Of course, I felt slighted by that statement, especially because we had gone through a rigorous selection process, so competence and capability were not issues. I professionally expressed my concerns about such comments and he apologised. Till date, that project is one of our most successful. What is your take on gender equality? Women are climbing up the ranks in the corporate, political, and business scenes, albeit at a slow pace. And the improvements being witnessed in the corporate sector are unevenly spread across industries. In Nigeria, we still have very few women represented at almost every level of the corporate ladder. I think women are treated as good employees at the lower and middle levels but as soon as they get to positions of power, politics comes into play and they are sidelined. The latest World Economic Forum Gender Gap Report  estimates a staggering 257 years to close the gap in economic participation for women, while the Global Gender Gap Report 2020 reveals that gender parity is still almost 100 years away. In most cases, women are sexually exploited for promotions, experience pay gap, are judged based on their appearances, are seen as a liability when they have children, are considered weak, less confident and unambitious, but these stereotypes are false. As a society, we need to continue encouraging people to go beyond stereotypes and recognise the contributions that individuals, whether male or female, can make to the workplace. How do you unwind? I unwind by watching great documentaries or tennis, reading, playing board games with my kids, swimming, visiting family and friends, and having my quiet time. Are you a fashionista? I will not term myself a fashionista as I do not obsessively follow fashion trends. Rather, I go for what suits me and what I feel comfortable in. I am a stylish and classy dresser. My go-to corporate outfit is a short sleeve, two-piece jacket and pants with high heels, while my go-to casual outfit is a plain t-shirt, three-quarter jeans, and a lovely pair of trainers. Do you have a beauty routine? Yes, I do. I keep my beauty routine very simple in order to be consistent. Some of the things I do include exercising a minimum of four times a week, eating fruits and vegetables, drinking at least two litres of water daily, getting a full body massage at least twice a month and face washing and moisturising. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 