Peter David, Benin The Deputy Governor of Edo State, Mr Philip Shaibu, has accused the deputy speaker of the state House of Assembly, Yekini Idiaye, of collecting N40m from the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, to support the candidate of the party in the September 19 governorship election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Addressing supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party in Lampese, Akoko-Edo Local Government Areas, Shaibu alleged that Idiaye, who represents Akoko-Edo Constituency (I), and the member representing Akoko-Edo Constituency (II), Emmanuel Agbaje, were paid N40m each to influence their support for Ize-Iyamu. The deputy speaker and Agbaje had on Sunday pledged their support for Ize-Iyamu. All the 24 members of the state House of Assembly are in the APC. But Shaibu called on the people of Akoko-Edo LGA to ask their representatives at the state’s House of Assembly for their share of the N40m given to each of them by Oshiomhole. He said, “The Speaker of the EDHA and all the principal officers are supporting the governor while those that left demanded money which he declined because of the love and interest of Edo people. “Hon Agbaje and Hon. Yekini collected N40m each to throw their support for Ize-Iyamu. Oshiomhole also gave N5m each to councilors to switch loyalty and support the APC candidate.” Reacting to the claims, the deputy speaker said, “I do not think that one will collect money to remain in his party. You only collect money to defect to other parties.” In a related development, Shaibu in a statement on Tuesday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Benjamin Atu, said Obaseki would continue to develop the state and ensure that opportunities were available to the people. READ ALSO: NAAPE kicks as Bristow sacks 100 pilots, engineers He said, “With a dedicated focus on development and synergy with relevant development partners, we restored the pride and dignity of Edo State. Edo State was a gloomy state when we took over the administration but today the story is different. Shaibu noted that rather than fighting the government for not allocating the wealth of the state among some people, Oshiomhole, and party’s governorship candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, should acknowledge the ingenuity and resilience of the Obaseki’s administration towards eradicating poverty in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 