Johnny Edward Former Super Eagles stars have expressed worries over the influx of overseas-born players in the national team, The PUNCH reports. No fewer than 11 overseas-born stars have been called up to the Eagles in the last decade, while only few from the Nigerian Professional Football League have made it through to the senior national team. Notable Eagles players born overseas include Leon Balogun, William Troost-Ekong, Tyronne Ebuehi, Bryan Idowu, Ola Aina, Maduka Okoye, Semi Ajayi and lately Cyriel Dessers and Kingsley Ehizibue. Goalkeeper Ikechukwu Ezenwa has been the only consistent domestic league player in the team in the last four years. Former Tanzania manager Emmanuel Amuneke said the inclusion of overseas-born players in the national team was an easy way out for sports administrators not interested in developing football at the grassroots. “I’m not totally against the exceptionally talented players included in team but not just any player. “This move (including players with overseas decent) serves as an opportunity of not taking responsibility of developing grassroots football knowing that somewhere in Europe there are players of Nigerian descent who have the right training already and will walk straight into the national team.” Former Nigeria goalkeeper, Ike Shorunmu, queried the inclusion of Maduka Okoye in the squad for a friendly game against Ukraine, stating that there were other keepers better than the 20-year-old in the Nigerian Professional Football League. He said, “Does Okoye’s inclusion in the Eagles mean that we don’t have a good goalkeeper in the NPFL better than him? “We still have some good keepers that are better than him and can make the team. We need to look at home products.” Ex-Eagles winger Finidi George blamed the trend on lack  of quality players in the NPFL. “This has to do with our local league. The quality of the NPFL has dropped and the players you have are not what the top teams in Europe need, so coaches may tend to chase these overseas-born players to play for the Eagles. That is the problem we have. We have to pump up our league and grassroots football development. “We have to make the league more competitive to rekindle people’s interest in it. Victor Agali, a former Eagles striker, added, “It’s good for the players coming into the team from overseas but sadly bad for the growth of those from the local league.” Senegal ’92 AFCON Eagles defender Ajibade Babalade said, “They need to give more preference to players in the NPFL, otherwise we should not run the league. The overseas-born players aren’t that better than the players developed in Nigeria. “Look at (Victor) Osimhen, Samuel Chukwueze and the likes of Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho. These players started from scratch in Nigeria and made it to the top, so if there’s a good structure to ensure growth we won’t need them.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 