Nike Popoola Sigma Pensions and the National Association of Nigeria Professional Footballers have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to offer local and international professional footballers a safety net in their retirement. The company said this in a statement on Friday entitled ‘Sigma Pensions sign MoU with NANPF to provide professional footballers a pension scheme.’ It said the customised scheme was expected to commence from the 2020/2021 football season and was signed by the President and the General Secretary of NANPF on behalf of the union, with the management of Sigma Pensions in Abuja recently. Sigma Pensions stated that the partnership was borne out of the need to enhance pension coverage across the working population. It said football had become a major source of employment for youths that had over the years not been catered for. On what prompted the partnership, the statement said, “Among Sigma Pensions’ mandate as a Pension Fund Administrator is to assist employed workers plan for their retirement so that they can have financial security in their post service years. “In line with that, Sigma Pensions felt the need to collaborate with this important sector that employs a large portion of our youth to provide them a retirement plan, so that they can also benefit from this laudable government programme of financial security just like employees in other sectors of the economy.” The MoU was aimed to cover local professional footballers playing in the domestic leagues, as well as international footballers abroad in foreign leagues. According to the statement, the cross-border arrangement guideline of the National Pension Commission made provision for people living outside Nigeria to have retirement plans at home. It said, “Nigerian professional footballers have never enjoyed any type of social security structure for their post-service years such that after their football careers, some fall into penury and cannot afford basics of life, let alone healthcare insurance at old age. “This arrangement is an opportunity for them to have a retirement plan such that after their active years, they would have a steady source of income that will guarantee them financial security in their old age.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 