Olufemi Olaniyi The President of Yoruba World Congress, Prof Banji Akintoye, has said restructuring is no longer capable of solving the problem facing the Yoruba race in Nigeria as well as other oppressed ethnic nationalities. The professor of History said rather than agitating for restructuring, what Nigeria leaders needed to do now was a negotiation of how they wanted the country to be. He said this in an interview with our correspondent on Saturday. According to him, various ethnic groups need to come together and agree on their relationship with Nigeria. Akintoye said restructuring would not stop the invasion of various ethnic groups and massive destruction of lives and properties that had been going on for some years. He said, “I respect people who are asking for restructuring but I belong to the large number of Yoruba people who have come to the conclusion that restructuring is no longer capable of solving the problems of Nigerian people. “I was one of the people fighting for restructuring before now and I have written more than 50 articles on restructuring but in the light of what has been happening in Nigeria, especially since 2015, it is obvious to me that restructuring is no longer capable of solving the problems. “For instance, I ask people, “Are you saying mere restructuring will stop the invasion of our land by the Fulani? Are you saying the people who are threatening to conquer our land, exterminate us and bring their tribal men from countries in West Africa will stop by just restructuring? “Are you saying restructuring will be the solution to the people who are bringing foreign terrorist organisations to conquer every tribe in Nigeria? Those who are asking for restructuring are free to go on. “But restructuring is no longer the appropriate thing to be fighting for now if a particular ethnic group is bringing foreign terrorist organisations to kill you and take over your land. Why don’t you demand a negotiation – a thorough renegotiation of our relationship rather than talking of restructuring?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 