Tobi Aworinde The Chairperson of the Executive Council, Women in Management, Business and Public Service, Ngover Ihyembe-Nwankwo, on Saturday, raised the alarm over the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on emotional health. Ihyembe-Nwankwo stated this at the fourth edition of the Pride Women Conference with the theme, ‘Maintaining Your Mental Well-being in Uncertain Times,’ which was held via videoconference. The WIMBIZ boss, who served as the chairperson on the occasion organised by Pride Magazine, highlighted some devastating events of 2020, including the global pandemic, slump in oil prices, “sluggish” demand for oil, rising food costs, job losses and restrictions on movement. She added that social and business gatherings and functions, which had created avenues to distract and help suppress troublesome emotions, vanished overnight, forcing them to confront their emotional well-being and the impact on physical and mental health. Ihyembe-Nwankwo said, “Overall health includes physical, emotional, intellectual, social and spiritual aspects. When these are all in balance and in alignment, we thrive. And we know when we thrive. “Sadly, we have often prioritised certain components to the detriment of others, especially our emotional health, and we have now been presented with a pandemic that has given us a chance to step back and focus on our emotional well-being. “As our daily lives continue to offer a series of ups and downs, progress and setbacks, emotional wellness helps us to cope with the stress and adversity, optimise our productivity and help us reach our full potential. It also affects our physical health.” She said there is a link between being in an upbeat mental state and physical signs of good health, which include lower blood pressure, reduced risk of heart disease and a healthier weight. Also, the Chairperson, Punch Nigeria Limited, Mrs Angela Emuwa, spoke on the impact that coping with a special needs child could have on one’s emotional well-being and ways to cope in general, during such trying times. Emuwa, who is also the President of the Autism Parents Association International, said, “Love and acceptance is the foundation for maintaining an emotional well-being in our situation because if you love your child, they will be happy, and you will be happy.” She added that one has to believe in one’s child, take pleasure in the smallest achievements and find time to relax. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 