Defence Headquarters says the troops of Operation Whirl Punch lost three personnel in an onslaught against bandits in Tashan Kare, Niger State. Two personnel were also wounded in the incident, DHQ said. It said the troops also neutralised “an unspecified number of bandits” while the exercise lasted. This was contained in an online publication by the Coordinator, Defence Media Operations at Defence Headquarters, Major General John Enenche, on the DHQ website on Monday. The post stated: “In continuation of the aggressive clearance operation to rid criminal elements out of the North-Central region of the country, troops of Operation WHIRL PUNCH has recorded tremendous success against armed bandits. “Following credible intelligence on the activities of armed bandits attack at Tashan Kare, in Niger State, troops swiftly mobilised to the scene and made contact with the bandits. “The gallant troops engaged the armed bandits with superior fire power, killing unspecified number, while others fled in disarray into the bushes. “Sadly, own troops suffered 3 casualties, while 2 others were wounded in action. Exploitation is on going. Details to follow. “The Military High Command congratulates the gallant troops for their professionalism and encourages them to intensify the onslaught against the enemies of our country.” In a related development, the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole says it has neutralised scores of terrorists and destroyed their hideouts and logistics structures at Tumbuma Baba and Boboshe in Borno State. “This was achieved in air strikes executed yesterday, 16 August 2020, on the first day of missions of a new subsidiary Operation code-named ‘Hail Storm,’ which is an air interdiction operation aimed at taking out identified Islamic State of West Africa Province and Boko Haram Terrorists’ targets in the Lake Chad and Sambisa Forest areas of Borno State,” the DHQ said. It added that the attack at Tumbuma Baba, one of the Island settlements on the fringes of the Lake Chad, was carried out after human intelligence reports indicated that several ISWAP fighters and some of their leaders were harboured in some structures concealed under the thick vegetation of the area. “The Nigerian Air Force fighter jets dispatched by the ATF to attack the location scored devastating hits on the settlement, killing several of the terrorists and destroying their structures. “Several terrorists were similarly neutralised and some of their dwellings destroyed at Boboshe, a village along the river line on the Eastern part of the Sambisa Forest, as the NAF jets took turns in engaging the location,” the Army said; promising, “The Armed Forces of Nigeria, operating in concert with other security agencies and stakeholders, will sustain its efforts to rid the North East of all terrorists and other criminal elements.”