Nike Popoola Allianz Nigeria Insurance Plc, a local operating entity of Allianz Group, has said it is partnering with Get it Done Now Limited, developers of the GIDN platform, to connect customers with verified service providers. The Chief Marketing and Strategy Officer at Allianz Nigeria, Walter Bossman, disclosed this in a statement entitled ‘Allianz Nigeria partners with Get it Done Now Limited to provide insurance solutions’ on Friday. Bossman said Allianz Nigeria would provide insurance products to registered customers and service providers on the platform through a redirected link. “Through this strategic partnership, we contribute our own quota to a stable and viable economy by providing bespoke insurance products to mitigate business risks of the registered service providers,” he said. The Co-Founder of GIDN, Alberto Rodriguez, said, “We are indeed excited to partner with Allianz Nigeria. This partnership aligns with our goal of providing a safe and secure platform for users and providers to transact. “We also believe that adding insurance services from Allianz to our platform is a great way to build trust among customers while adding credibility to the small business owners.” The Unit Head, Infrastructure Technology at Allianz Nigeria, Dapo Odunuga, said, “For us at Allianz Nigeria Insurance Plc, digital transformation has moved from being a vague and futuristic concept to an immediate term action, especially in this unprecedented times. “Insurance is gradually moving away from the conventional method of physical sales to technology driven sales.” According to the firm, the initiative provides another avenue for customers, service providers and the general public, regardless of location, to buy insurance solutions with their mobile phones. The statement described GIDN as the developer of an easy-to-use mobile application that provides a platform for customers to search, find and book verified professional service providers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  