Johnny Edward Members of the Super Sand Eagles, the Beach Soccer national team, have lamented the team’s exclusion from the list of beneficiaries of the COVID-19 relief funds, The PUNCH reports. The Nigeria Football Federation on Tuesday released a list of how it shared $2m across national teams, the men and women’s leagues, coaches association, supporters and sports writers, amongst others. According to a statement from the Communications Department of the NFF, the total sum is made up of $1m from FIFA’s support for restarting the football season, $500,000, the world body’s support for women’s football; $300,000, CAF’s support to its members and $200,000, the NFF’s support from sponsors funds. According to the NFF’s list, women’s football will get $500,000, while men’s football will receive $1.5m, but there is no allocation for the Super Sand Eagles. A coach of the team, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said, “We’ve been owed allowances for several years now and it’s unfair the Beach Soccer team is not included on the list.” “It’s devastating that we didn’t get a share from the FIFA money despite being owed allowances from Beach Soccer World Cups organised by FIFA,” a top star of the team lamented. When The PUNCH asked the NFF’s Head of Communications, Ademola Olajire, if the Sand Eagles were listed under the men’s senior team, he replied via a short message, saying, “Well, I don’t think they are on the list. The table is clear as approved by the Board.” The Ghana FA, which had earlier announced the sharing of their funds, also didn’t add their Beach Soccer team but allotted $15,000 to the country’s Beach Soccer League, while the Sierra Leone FA gave $5,000 to their Beach Soccer teams, listed under National Teams. The President of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, Honour Sirawoo, has applauded the Nigeria Football Federation on the transparent manner it disbursed the COVID-19 packages from FIFA, CAF and other sponsors. Sirawoo noted that the transparency would enhance the cordial working relationship between the NFF and other stakeholders especially SWAN, who got N 11,580,000 from the relief funds. He said, “The leadership of the NFF has displayed a very high degree of transparency in the manner it handled the COVID-19 palliatives from its various sponsors by ensuring that all the stakeholders in the football development chain were captured. “We in SWAN are particularly happy because this recognition will go a long way in ameliorating the impact of the pandemic, which slowed down the economic activities of the country. “We thank the NFF president Amaju Pinnick and members of his board for this well-thought and timely gesture; our members have gone through various degrees of pains following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, we say thank you NFF.” The SWAN president assured that he would ensure all the members of the association in its 37 chapters were given their due from the amount Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com