What is a stroke? A stroke is a medical term used to describe the clinical presentation of sudden and often dramatic deterioration of neurological functions, due to an interruption in critical blood flow to the brain as a result of an obstruction within the vessel or rupture of such vessel. The strategies for stroke treatment include treatment of high blood pressure, high cholesterol and daily exercise, the development of a comprehensive stroke centre with protocols, which include medical treatment and highly skilled interventions such as stenting, thrombolysis and surgery. What are the general symptoms? The typical signs are the impairment of neurological functions such as poor speech, loss of strength and movement of the arms or legs, decreased sensation to touch, loss of consciousness and decreased alertness; these are easy to identify, but there are also less subtle signs, such as headaches, vomiting, poor balance and seizures. Are the symptoms of a stroke in men different from those in women? There are no differences in the symptoms for both genders. Some Africans still see a stroke as an act of witchcraft, charm or a spell, rather than a medical condition. What do you think about that and is there any proof? Unfortunately, due to poor education, people are misled to relate sudden and dramatic poor health outcomes to some form of spiritual issue. They may not understand how one could suddenly lose the use of the arms or speech or, worse still, die suddenly while dancing at a party. There is no such thing as witchcraft or charms that can spiritually induce a stroke, because it has a physical and scientific explanation. There is a need for aggressive citizen education and reorientation to be able to recognise the onset of a stroke so that care can be received promptly. Time is of the essence in the treatment of a stroke but the dramatic appearance and often sudden and rapid deterioration in the condition of a stroke patient can lead some family members to suspect supernatural causes in looking for an answer as to why someone who was fine an hour ago has now lost the use of his legs or his speech or sight, or has collapsed with severe headache. What are the different types of stroke? There are three major types: cerebral infarction, intracerebral haemorrhage and sub-arachnoid haemorrhage. Cerebral infarction typically accounts for up to 65 to 70 per cent of stokes and has weakness or sensory changes to one half of the body, resulting from an obstruction within the blood vessel pipe, causing sudden starvation of the affected brain tissue that is unable to receive nutrients and oxygen due to lack of blood flow. The obstruction, known medically as the thrombus, is a clump of blood rolled into a lump and could develop right within the blood vessel pipe next to the affected brain tissue or it could have travelled from the heart or another part of the blood vessel architecture and nestled in the final point of obstruction. That type of thrombus is called an emboli. Hypertension, diabetes and heart arrhythmia or fibrillation are key risk factors. Thrombus formation is accelerated by fatty deposits or ‘plaques’ within the blood vessel. Intracerebral haemorrhage is a type of stroke that occurs as a result of a rupture in the blood vessel pipe, such that not only does the brain tissue beyond the rupture gets starved of critical nutrients and oxygen, there is spillage of blood outside the blood vessel, which causes increased pressure in the cranium, resulting in severe headaches. This type accounts for 20 to 25 per cent of strokes and has similar symptoms to the more common strokes but with components of severely elevated blood pressure, headaches and altered level of consciousness. Hypertension is the major factor, but in younger patients, it could also result from haematologic derangements, vasculitis and use of blood thinners. Sub-arachnoid haemorrhage is the most infrequent and occurs in five per cent of cases. It is a more complex type of stroke often seen in younger females and resulting from a ruptured blood vessel aneurysm, with a typical story of a sudden, ‘worst headache ever,’ followed by rapid deterioration of consciousness and other neurological functioning. Aneurysms are unusual ‘ballooning out’ of short segments of the blood vessel pipes that ordinarily should be straight and smooth and, hence, susceptible to kinks and rupture. What are the risk factors that make a person more susceptible to a stroke? The risk of a stroke increases with age and most cases are seen after 60 to 65 years without any preference for male or female. Primarily, hypertension is the most significant condition that predicts future stroke. This is due to damage done to the inside of blood vessels. High intake of salt and fat in one’s diet are said to increase the risk of a stroke. How? This is due to increased stroke risk from intima damage due to hypertension from high salt intake, the damage done to the inside of the blood vessels increases fatty build up and possibility of thrombus obstruction. How prevalent is a stroke? Nigeria could have 300,000 to 400,000 new strokes a year, though nationwide statistics are lacking in these regard. The data from major teaching hospitals support a significant stroke burden, with stroke resulting in as high as five per cent of all medical admissions in some hospitals, but resulting in as high as 17 per cent of the deaths. What health conditions increase the risk of a stroke? First is hypertension, which disrupts the intima of blood vessels. This damage is also caused by diabetes, high cholesterol and smoking; related conditions include heart arrhythmia or fibrillation, haematologic derangements, and vasculitis, sickle cell disease. Stroke survivors may suffer long term disability, resulting in lost income, as well as huge out-of-pocket expenses, which place a financial strain on family members and caregivers. Is stroke hereditary? Hereditary factors can contribute to developing high blood pressure and diabetes, which are risk factors for stroke. While genetic disorders, such as sickle cell disease, can also cause stroke. No one inherits strokes. Rather a combination of the listed risk factors, left uncontrolled, could eventually result in a stroke. How can a stroke be diagnosed? Tests for diagnosing strokes include complete blood count, tests for clotting disorders, glucose, thyroid test, and markers of inflammation. Imaging studies include CT scan, MRI, CT or MR angiogram, carotid ultrasound, echocardiogram and electrocardiogram. When does a stroke become a medical emergency? An individual with stroke symptoms should seek emergency medical attention immediately, if they have facial drooping, arm weakness and speech difficulty. ‘Time is brain,’ meaning that the more time elapses after the onset of stroke symptoms, the more brain damage will occur. A stroke should always be seen as an emergency, particularly if there is unconsciousness. Unfortunately, Nigeria’s healthcare system is weak in emergency, as well as critical care infrastructure. How can a stroke be treated and what are the relevant drugs that could be prescribed by a medical expert? A key portion of stroke care and management is the intervention performed in the community. Immediate evaluation of a person who is showing stroke symptoms is prudent. Emergency and critical care support, during the first three to 48 hours, are important for survival. Medication such as clots busters, known as thrombolytics and antiplatelets, such as aspirin, are used as well. In some cases, a stronger blood thinner is used. Care should preferably be directed by a neurologist in a hospital with multidisciplinary specialisations. Endovascular neurology is a novel and exciting approach to treating strokes by gaining access into the arteries by cannulating the femoral artery in the groin and with precision, advancing a surgical wire upstream, past the heart and into the neck arteries and beyond that into the subdivisions in the brain. While in such a vantage location,  a skilled pair of hands could unblock arteries, place stents and fix aneurysms. Ischemic stroke can be treated by removing the clot, via thrombectomy, which is a form of mechanical treatment whereby the occluding lump of blood clot is removed over a wire placed into the artery via catheterisation. Alternatively, using similar techniques, a stent, which is an expansible metal alloy coil, is placed into the narrowed segment in order to open it up. Brain aneurysms could also be clipped and treated endovascularly. When is surgery necessary? Surgical stroke treatments vary based on the cause of the stroke, whether ischemic or lack of blood flow to the brain or haemorrhagic or brain bleed from ruptures of blood vessels. Surgery is necessary in some cases; a neurosurgeon can perform major and high-risk surgery, known as a carotid end-atherectomy, to surgically open up and unblock neck arteries.  Large bleeding into the brain may also need to be evacuated by craniotomy. What measures can be taken to help a person recovering from a stroke? A key focus is the rehabilitation process, where we need our physical and occupational therapists to devise a physical strengthening and recovery process to attempt to get an individual back to a pre-stroke functional level, and to help with a possible return to gainful employment. Another stroke could be prevented by ongoing control of high blood pressure and other risk factors. How can a stroke be prevented? A stroke can be prevented by maintaining good control of high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, reducing stress, and leading a healthy and active lifestyle. Improving community knowledge to aid early recognition, as well as prompt acute care in a well-equipped hospital, could save lives and reverse the brain damage. Teaching hospital medical doctors should enact policies that support the development of nationwide stroke care management standards; and the government should facilitate closure of the significant infrastructural and clinical expertise gap that exists in our healthcare system today. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 