Dele Ogunyemi, Warri The Ijaw People’s Development initiative has tasked Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to complete the abandoned permanent site of Delta State School Of Marine Technology. This was contained in a statement signed by the president of the group, Ozobo Austin, copies of which were made available to journalists in Warri on Tuesday. The group however urged the member of the State House of Assembly representing Burutu Local Government Area to prevail on the governor to complete the abandoned project. The group said it was wrong that successive governments of Delta State ‘do not take Ijaw riverine areas development serious’. According to the group, what Burutu gets as a people is not commensurable to the huge economic contributions to the state’s Internally Generated Revenue and the Federal Government. The group stated, “The economic importance of Burutu surpasses economic contributions of other LGAs in the state. “The governor starves us of meaningful engagements and development but deem it fit to spread critical developmental projects in areas that do not produce a drop of oil.” The IPDI said, “It is our candid appeal that the abandoned permanent site project of Delta State School of Marine Technology, Burutu, be completed without further delay. “The permanent site project was awarded by his predecessor, Dr Emmanauel Uduaghan and abandoned after a take-off. “We protested and the contractor was mobilised back to site, and the project was raised to the second story decking level and since then the project has been abandoned till date. “The important of this project cannot be overemphasized. The school since its establishment is occupying a civic center owns by Burutu community.” It added that the civic centre did not have the needed space and housing facilities to address office accommodation needs of the school. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  