Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja A former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, on Monday, boasted that the office of the chairman of the ruling party did not make him who he is today. Rather, the former President of the Nigeria Labour Congress said it was his pedigree as a labour leader that made him. Oshiomhole said this in an interview with State House correspondents shortly after he met behind closed doors with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The former governor of Edo State, whose tenure as the APC chairman ended on June 25, 2020, with the dissolution of the party’s National Working Committee, was reacting to a statement credited to the Director-General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum, Dr Salihu Lukman. Lukman had accused some influential party chieftains of allegedly plotting to return Oshiomhole as the national chairman of the party. But when asked to react to the allegation, Oshiomhole said he was not unemployed. He said, “You want me to engage in a fight with a pig? If you engage in a fight with a pig, the pig already is stained by its nature and you will wear your white garment, and in my own case, khaki, to go and wrestle with a pig. I will not. “When I was removed as national chairman, Edo was APC. So, do I have to win Edo to become the chairman? Do I look so unemployed? I’m 68. “So, what they don’t understand is that it is not the office of chairman that made me who I am. “It is my pedigree from my days as a labourer in the textile industry to be the general secretary of textile workers all over Nigeria and becoming the president of the NLC. READ ALSO: WASSCE holds, WAEC faults rumoured paper leakage, exam suffers delay “There is no village I go to that people do not know me and it is this that I used to override the godfathers in Edo State for two consecutive terms and even got a governor elected, no violence before becoming the national chairman.” Oshiomhole said his leaving office as the party’s national chairman had not removed anything from him. He likened his situation to that of Buhari, whom he said people voted for to become the President based on the trust they had in him. He said such trust would still remain with the President even after 2023 when he would have ceased to be in office. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 