Oladapo Ashiru The gallbladder is a hollow organ that sits in a shallow position below the right lobe of the liver that is grey-blue in life. In adults, the gallbladder measures approximately seven to 10 centimetres in length and four centimeters in diameter when fully distended. The gallbladder has a capacity of about 50 milliliters. Here is a brief description of the gallbladder function below. Please read it carefully and have an idea of the role of this tiny organ of the body. A storehouse of bile: The primary gallbladder function is to act as a storehouse for bile juice. The bile juice remains here until a need arises in the intestine for the digestion of lipids. The liver is the organ that secretes the bile. Here is an interesting fact about the liver that it is the hottest organ in your body. At the same time, the liver is also one of the most critical body organs. It is a dark green or yellowish-brown fluid that contains up to 97 per cent water. However, the remaining three per cent of its composition comes from other substances, including bile salts, inorganic salts, bilirubin, and fats. Here it is necessary to realise that there are no enzymes in the bile juice. As an anti-oxidant: It is an essential and vital gallbladder function that the gall or bile behaves like an anti-oxidant. Therefore, the gall can remove toxins from the blood and ingested food. Oxidation reactions taking place in the body produce free radicals which are harmful to the health. On the other hand, playing the role of an anti-oxidant, bile juice counters the poisonous effects of these substances. Another important thing worth mentioning here is that the removal of these free radicals also serves to delay the process of aging. So, you look young when you are not! Gallbladder function in acid neutralisation: As bile fluid is alkaline, it also helps neutralise hydrochloric acid in the stomach during starvation. Hydrochloric acid or HCL, in the stomach, has a pH value of two. This intense acidic concentration helps in the digestion of proteins present in the food. First of all, the inactive pepsinogen converts into an active pepsin enzyme in this acidic medium. The digestion of fats, on the other hand, requires an alkaline medium. So, bile comes to play its role here. It quickly turns the acidic medium into alkaline one as food enters the small intestine after partial digestion in the stomach. Emulsification of lipids: Another significant gallbladder function is that of the emulsification of lipids. The bile juice, coming from the gallbladder, also has the potential to emulsify lipids or fatty substances in the diet. After that, it becomes easier for the enzymes to undergo the digestion of emulsified fats. As an emulsifier of fats, the bile aid a great deal in the process of food digestion. Facilitation of absorption: Bile is also crucial for the absorption of food. It assists in the uptake of fats and fat-soluble molecules across the wall of the small intestine into the body. After entering the bloodstream, these tiny food particles travel through blood vessels. Finally, these food particles reach every individual cell. The powerhouses of the cells, mitochondria, carry out the further breakdown of these particles. This breakdown occurs through the process of respiration to extract energy present in the bonds of compounds. Elimination of waste products: The removal of waste products is another gallbladder function. In other words, gallbladder plays an essential role in the elimination of waste products from the body. The waste substances, including bilirubin, are secreted into the bile. Actually, after the recycling of red blood cells by the liver, bilirubin produced as a by-product. This gall then empties into the small intestine. It travels along with other waste products in the gut towards the posterior end of the gastrointestinal canal. Finally, it discharges out of the body along with faeces. What affects the gallbladder function? It is primarily the diseases that can affect the gallbladder function. The gallbladder diseases, on the other hand, are of several different types. Sometimes, they are infectious and may occur due to the attack of germs, viruses like the current SARS-CoV2 and the likes, formation of gallstones, or some other cause. At times, this small organ may also fall victim to some malignancy or a cancerous condition. Here follows a brief description of some disease that can affect the gallbladder function: Cholecystitis: Gallbladder function – gallstones is one of the most common diseases of the gallbladder. The condition of cholecystitis refers to the inflammation of the biliary vesicle. There can be different background factors for the onset of this disease, such as gallstones. The gallstones obstruct the bile duct, which carries gall and empties it into the small intestine. The accumulation of hepatic juice leads to high swelling in the organ. Cholecystitis involves the symptoms of fever, nausea, vomiting, and pain in the abdominal area. Gallstones are one of the most prevalent diseases affecting the gastrointestinal tract. Once associated with older people, gallstones are now seen frequently even in the young due to poor dietary and stressed lifestyles. The prevalence of gallstone is lower in Africans than in the western world. Approximately one in two Americans have gallstones, and 750,000 will have their gallstones removed by year-end. It is due to differences in dietary cholesterol and fibre in the diet. When cooking in Africa, it is typical to have either palm or vegetable oil flowing at the top of the stew. Furthermore, the oil we commonly use in cooking has 100 per cent saturated fat content. In general, the average daily requirement for oil in food is about two to three tablespoonful. Gallstones are crystal-like masses formed within the gallbladder by the accumulation of bile components. Sizes range from a grain of sand to between three and four centimetres. The gallbladder is a small organ located on the right side of the liver, attached to the common bile duct. Its primary function is to store bile (produced by the liver) and secretes it into the small intestine for the digestion of fat. Gallstone is as a result of precipitation of cholesterol and bile salts from the bile. There are three types of gallstones -cholesterol stones (yellow-green and made primarily of hardened cholesterol.) The medical understanding of how gallstone develops has increased, it is caused by a combination of factors including heredity, obesity, and the gallbladder’s ability to contract. … to be continued Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 