There have been divided opinions about the credibility of the just-concluded elections of the Nigerian Bar Association. What do you think about the process? Well, in every human endeavour, you are likely to see divided opinions. But when opinions are divided, especially in a professional association like the Nigerian Bar Association, the first parameter we should use to judge which of the opinions are correct or not correct is looking at the laws under which such elections are conducted. You must appreciate the position that the Nigerian Bar Association is the foremost association of lawyers of honourable men and women of credit and repute. And what that means is that in the conduct of the affairs of the Nigerian Bar Association, the association and its leadership must, like Caesar’s wife, be above board, and exhibit conduct which will not call to question the propriety or otherwise of their decisions. Having said that, the first ill I found with what you called the just-concluded election is with the voter register or what we call the list of lawyers, who are qualified to vote. Under the Nigerian Bar Association’s constitution, the affairs of the association are conducted at various branches and we have about 125 branches of the Nigerian Bar Association across the country. Under our law, you are not entitled to vote unless you have met certain minimum criteria, one of which is that you must have paid your practising fees as and when due as prescribed by the constitution and have paid your branch due. Our constitution enjoins that when electoral committee is set up and approved by the National Executive Committee of the association, in the year of the election, the electoral committee then writes to the chairmen of the branches to forward the list of eligible lawyers who are eligible and have met the constitutional requirement to vote in the election. In this case, there have been agitations across the board that the list sent by the various branches’ chairmen were jettisoned for the list claimed to be that of stamp and seal. So, in the first place, it is ex nihilo nihil fit – from nothing, nothing comes – that is the Latin maxim. The electoral committee has no power to unilaterally compile lists of voters as was done by the electoral committee in this case, because it is a notorious fact that is admitted by the electoral committee that they used ‘stamp and seal’ list because, according to them, the various chairmen were not forthcoming with the list. That is the first constitutional breach. What is the second? The second is that article 2.3 (d) of the second Schedule of the NBA constitution amended under Paul Usoro-led executive provides that the full list of all legal practitioners qualified to vote shall be published by the electoral committee of the NBA in conjunction with the national secretariat of the NBA at least 28 days before the date of the election. What did we see in this election? The list was not published until three hours to the election. That is another constitutional sacrilege. I know that the beneficiaries of these constitutional iniquities are praising the process because Nigeria is a society that thrives on mob action and Nigeria also has the propensity to stomach wrongs. Nigeria is the only society I also know of where people celebrate wrongs because they are beneficiaries of those wrongs. In the legal profession, it shouldn’t be so because this is a profession of noble men and women. But the other side of the opinions is not only supporting improprieties, they are defending improprieties. The question is whether or not there is a breach, and if there is a fundamental breach, it vitiates the entire process. I have nothing against Olu Akpata, I have nothing against any of the contestants that contested and won. The third point is that it is also a notorious fact that while electoral committee set guidelines prohibiting movements from states and there was also COVID prohibition of movement, some of these candidates were traveling and the electoral committee of the NBA was just there like a toothless bulldog. It was only barking but didn’t bite. The legal profession should be the one that ought to set that standard because it is a profession that is rooted in ethics and standards, and once there is deviation or breach of the ethical standards, we must visit whoever is involved with sanction, no matter whose ox is gored. Does it mean that the e-voting system has not made any positive impact on NBA elections? We must go down memory lane. Since when we introduced the e-voting system, the election of the NBA has not been without controversies. It began with J. K. Gadzama, we did not see anything wrong when he complained. Then came Arthur Obi Okafor, we kept quiet. Now it has been done in a more grievous monumental proportion and the leadership again, like the Nigerian society, is likely to keep quiet. Look, the crisis facing the Nigerian Bar Association is like a muster seed, it looks tiny, it appears to be insignificant, but it will grow to a level that it may scatter the association if the leadership of the bar, I mean the senior members and even the now younger kingmakers, don’t go back to the root of this profession. The professional association that I joined almost 30 years ago was a profession that prided itself in integrity. Othman Dan Fodio said, ‘Conscience is an open wound, only truth can heal it.’ I have been at the bar for quite some time to be able to speak about what past presidents of the association did. When President Augustine Alegeh introduced this electronic voting, I recalled that there was demonstration of the voting process and approval of the service provider at the National Executive Committee meeting held in Jos. I was there. The man came to Benin NEC to demonstrate how voting would be done; I was there. And in every part of the process, to the credit of the president at the time, Austin Alegeh, he got the approval of NEC.  I also had the privilege to participate in the litigation in that matter. In that e-voting, even though there were complaints which we ignored, there was, firstly, a register of lawyers who were qualified to vote; secondly, a register of lawyers who were accredited to vote; thirdly, a register of lawyers who voted. I have all the records here to show you. That was the procedure that was followed. In this election, and the one that produced Paul Usoro, can they produce these documents? No! I think that I must speak the truth even if heaven falls, but heaven will not fall. I have nothing against Olu Akpata, let me emphasise this again. If the people who nominated him found him worthy in knowledge and character and qualified, let him win the election rooted in a solid foundation of constitutional process. I don’t think that his election, in the circumstances, has met acid test of constitutionality. Are you saying the NBA NEC did not approve the service provider for the just-concluded elections? Even under President A. B. Mahmud, in fairness to him too, when he appointed Chams, which generated controversies, he came to Kano NEC, sought approval to appoint service provider, even though not named. In the course of time, he was interacting with past presidents and candidates. I was aware. In this election where was the service provider appointed? Which NEC approved it? Our constitution says that the person to provide service must be appointed by the NEC. Which NEC approved this? How many meetings did the leadership of the electoral committee hold with the candidates? I can speak on good authority that the candidates themselves begged the electoral committee before they reluctantly held one meeting with them. At that material time, nobody knew who the service provider was going to be. I recall that my learned friend, whom I respect and love, Olu Akpata, almost engaged in what appeared to be an altercation at the meeting, because he too was kept in the dark by the electoral committee. Mark you, the NBA has what is called ‘electoral monitoring committee’. Tell me how you monitor the Independent National Electoral Commission if you can’t conduct your own election, according to your own law? What moral right do you have to say you want to monitor the Peoples Democratic Party, the All Progressives Congress, the Accord Party, or any of the political parties that are in this country or INEC? We have lost the moral and legal rights to talk against ills against the society when we ourselves are not only committing the ills, we are defending ills with every commitment in our body just because we are beneficiaries of the wrong. I would not be a party to it. Do you believe these constitutional breaches characterising the conduct of the elections as you have alleged were orchestrated by the electoral committee in connivance with the certain candidates to ensure the victory of the candidates? These procedural iniquities were orchestrated by the emerging ‘new leaders’ or the one they call would ‘kingmakers’ who now believe that the old faction should be gone, so that they too can now be the kingmakers. So, they now decide who becomes the leader of the bar. Did they emerge in this election, or in the previous elections? They emerged in this election. Even, they have started partnering on who is to come in 2022 and 2024. They know themselves. When the traditional drums are beaten, the dancers know themselves. Shouldn’t Mr Adesina have gone to court instead of petitioning the Board of Trustees of the NBA to nullify the elections? Mr Adesina is a firm believer in the rule of law and due process. Our constitution says: don’t go to court unless you send your complaints to the dispute resolution committee. And in this case, who are in a better position to resolve the issues than the trustees? Is the dispute resolution the same thing as the board of trustees? There is a dispute resolution committee; there is a board of trustees of the NBA. He has complained to the leadership of the NBA. The NBA leadership ought to have referred his complaints to the dispute resolution committee. But the president of the bar was quick to react to it as if he was the dispute resolution committee. Nemo judex in causa sua, you can’t be the judge in your own cause. There is an accusing finger against the leadership of the bar headed by the president, so why will he be the one reacting to Dele Adesina’s complaints? Our constitution talks about dispute resolution committee, why didn’t the president of the bar set up the dispute resolution committee for Dele Adesina’s complaints to be ventilated? President Alegeh did so and asked Chief J. K. Gadzama to go there. But Mr Adesina sent his petition to the board of trustees, not the NBA President. He first wrote to the electoral committee, and the electoral committee never replied. The president of the bar who was not the chairman of the electoral committee took it upon himself to reply. When an owl cries at night and a child dies in the morning, there is a presumption in African beliefs that it must have been the owl that killed the child. What further advice would you offer Mr Adesina following your perceived reluctance of the NBA leadership towards addressing his petition? Nigeria is a society that does not respect gentility. I will not even advise Mr Adesina to go to court. Why? Is that not a demonstration of lack of confidence in the Nigerian judiciary? Two previous cases went to court and those people served out their tenures without justice being served. All we got from the courts were judgments. And there is a world of difference between justice and judgments. But if that can happen in a dispute involving a major component of the legal profession, does that not tell a sad tale about the nation’s justice system? That is why I think that we would solve this problem with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Must we remain members of NBA? In the light of section 40 of the Constitution, don’t you have the right to walk away from NBA? Doesn’t Mr Adesina or any other lawyer have a right to walk away from the NBA? Would that not be an extreme measure? There are raw procedures for raw people. When people are being rough and the voice of reasoning is being termed as a voice of somebody who cannot stomach a loss, then you take a decision. There is a saying in my place that a man with big hernia dances and faces where he has glory. Otherwise, if he dances and faces where he does not have glory, they will say ‘look at this stupid man’. There are reasonable lawyers in Nigeria that can come together and show respect for one another. And I think the era of respect for one another in the legal profession seems to be far gone when the emerging new kingmakers believe that lawyers who go to court, lawyers whose integrity is a treasure to them are no longer lawyers that can be heard. When leadership is determined by the quantum of money in your pocket, and not the integrity you possess, some of us will say goodbye. If the board of trustees and the leadership of the legal profession don’t sit down to negotiate the continued existence of the Nigerian Bar Association, I can tell you that one day, you will wake up and you will see different societies spring up from the Nigerian Bar Association, and it will not take long time if these injuries are not addressed. Do you think Adesina would have won if the procedures were not violated, as you argued, and followed strictly? That will only be determined by the electorate. That is not a relevant question. The question is not about who won. When people talk about who won, what problem do I have with Olu Akpata? I have never quarrelled with him, he has never quarrelled with me, why should I be pained that he won? Is he not my colleague? People tend to think it bothers me that Akpata won. When I protested against Usoro’s election, was it Akpata that won? And Usoro is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria. I have consistently remained consistent in my advocacy that the election of the NBA must be above board? The question is not about who won. In 2018, I wrote, ‘This profession must not be brought to its knees completely’. While those who have been declared ‘elected’ have every cause to celebrate and thank God. I wish they can weep for the process that brought them. I think the Nigerian Bar Association has lost the right to its motto: ‘Promoting the rule of law’. The facts emerging from the just-concluded elections of the NBA, particularly to the office of the president of this once noble association show how we have deteriorated in integrity and nobility’. I wrote that on August 28, 2018, two years ago. So I have remained consistent. What advice do you have for those who won in this last election? I have no advice for those who won. I have advice for the leadership of the legal profession, and I mean both the senior and the younger ones, (and) those who mean well for the legal profession, to think deeply and address these flaws that I have identified. Nobody should be ignored. Let the leadership call for a meeting and chart a way forward. After all, it was done sometime in 1998. If the complaints of lawyers who are genuinely concerned by the integrity and the sanity of the profession are undermined, the only thing you will find is that we will walk away. Are you calling for the cancellation of this election? If that will produce a credible election and Akpata wins, I will congratulate him. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 