Sampson Itode and Dennis Naku A civil society organisation in Rivers State, Human Rights Advocates, has alleged that the policemen accused of raping a 23-year-old widow have resumed their normal duties. The group said the development was shocking given the fact that the Rivers State Police Command told the public that the accused cops were in detention at the State Criminal Investigation Department in Port Harcourt. The rights group added that the revelation suggested that the police had exonerated the accused officers, even when it had yet to conclude investigations. Speaking on behalf of the organisation, Prince Wiro said the accused police inspector, Peter Ibah, and his team were sighted at the checkpoint where they allegedly arrested the widow for not using a face mask while travelling. He said, “We heard that Inspector Peter Ibah and his team had resumed duty at the same checkpoint around Saakpenwaa Junction. We immediately drove through the place and saw them working. It was when they noticed us that they hurriedly left the checkpoint. “The Rivers State Police Command told us that the accused police officers had been detained at the State Criminal Investigation Department pending the conclusion of investigations and we are not aware if the investigations had been concluded, because the widow has yet to submit the medical report form given to her by the police.” On her part, the victim said she had yet to complete and return her medical examination result due to her ill health. “The police claimed that they gave me a medical report on the day I reported the matter. The truth is that the medical report was given to me five days after and when I checked it, I discovered that it was backdated to the day I reported the issue,” she added. But the spokesman for the command, SP Nnamdi Omoni, denied that the cops had been released, describing the allegation as a mere speculation. He said, “To the best of my knowledge and as far as the command is concerned, they are being interrogated at the State Criminal Investigation Department. It is verifiable; anybody can go there and the men as we speak are there. “So, reports that they were granted bail, released and back to their beats are inconceivable, unverifiable and an attempt to overheat the command.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com