Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government on Thursday commenced moves towards the restructuring of the Federal Ministry of Power. It said the initiative would ensure better service delivery and the execution of government’s vision for the power sector. To achieve this, the Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, inaugurated the Committee on the Restructuring of the Federal Ministry of Power and Oversight of its Agencies at the headquarters of the ministry in Abuja on Thursday. Mamman said the power sector was in the process of undergoing long term structural market reforms and had gone through the first phase of privatisation, with the hope of unlocking investments and improving service delivery. “However, it must be said that the exercise has not delivered the benefits envisaged as the sector is still struggling with a number of critical challenges,” the minister stated. He outlined these challenges to include market inefficiency, structural misalignment, central coordination issues, abandoned or stagnated projects and a host of others. Mamman said these issues prompted the initiative to restructure the power ministry, which, he said, was the implementation arm of the Federal Government’s overall strategy in the power sector. He said members of the committee, who would champion the restructuring, include representatives from relevant departments, Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, and special assistants to the power ministers. Mamman said the committee would examine the existing functions of the departments in the ministry and streamline them to align with departmental mandates. He said they would design a template for uniform oversight of the agencies, make recommendations that would enhance the effective administration of the ministry and its agencies, among other functions. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   