’Tosin Oluwalowo Nigerians have lauded billionaire Aliko Dangote for funding the renovation of the long abandoned pitch of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. The PUNCH had reported in June that the Abuja stadium was in a bad state one year after it was named after the presumed winner of the 1993 presidential election, Moshood Abiola. Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, on Wednesday, handed over the stadium to Dangote Group and Aron Nigeria Limited for rehabilitation. He said it was part of the Adopt-A-Pitch campaign of the Federal Government. The move has left many Nigerians delighted, with many urging the FG to ensure that the stadium was given adequate maintenance. “Aliko Dangote is a force to reckon with always. Indeed the man is giving back to his society. Obajana highway is one of his numerous testaments of his good gestures,” Victor Afolayan wrote on Twitter. Lawal Adeshina also advised that the stadium be put in proper use by allowing the semi-finals and finals of the FA Cup be played there. “Thanks to all those fixing our dilapidated sporting facilities. That stadium should be a national monument, where it will be the dream of every Nigerian to visit for tourism. I think the FA or Challenge Cup should be given much attention for semi-finals and finals to be played there,” he wrote. “Way to go…. Private participation is key to the country’s development. I pray more of this happens,” @dee_enigma814 also added. Adediran Akodu and Adeola Amokomowo both harped on constant renovation of the stadium. “Applaudable. Also ensure that the edifice is maintained from time to time after the renovation,” Akodu wrote. “Thanks for this but the real issue is the maintenance after the renovation. Maintenance is a huge problem in our part of the world,” Amokomowo also added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   