Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick, has urged the Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, to name the Kwara stadium after late Super Eagles striker, Rashidi Yekini. Pinnick made the plea on Thursday, during the inauguration of the Kwara State Football House in Ilorin, the state capital, by Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. Yekini, who scored Nigeria’s first ever goal at the World Cup in 1994, hailed from Ira in Kwara State and died in Ibadan May 4, 2012 aged 48. He is Nigeria’s highest goalscorer, scoring 37 times in 58 appearances for the Eagles. “When I go to Lagos, I see a stadium called Teslim Balogun stadium, when I go to Bayelsa, I see a stadium called Samson Siasia Stadium, I go to Port Harcourt, I see Adokiye (Amiesimaka) Stadium, but the greatest player ever in Nigeria, Rashidi Yekini does not have a stadium (named after him). “I want to make an appeal on behalf of Nigeria football to name the Kwara stadium after Rashidi Yekini,” Pinnick said. On his part, Abdulrazaq said his administration was committed to reviving sporting infrastructure to create a conducive environment for talents, adding that non-contact sporting activities have resumed in the state as part of the gradual easing of COVID-19 restrictions. A statement by Rafiu Ajakaye, Chief Press Secretary to the governor quoted Abdulrazaq as saying, “We have since approved the reopening of non-contact sports as we gradually return to a new normal.” The Football House was constructed by the Kwara State Football Association with financial support from the Abdulrazaq administration and A.U Mustapha (SAN), a member of the NFF and the Confederation of African Football. The governor commended Pinnick for his great works at the NFF and his long-standing contributions to the game. “We have seen transformation in football since you came in. We are glad that we are benefitting in Kwara and continue with the legacy being laid down especially with the football house,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   