Wale Oyewale In a bid to reposition the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State, the party’s Reconciliation Committee, led by former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, has urged all aggrieved groups within the party to toe the path of peace. The committee called for the dissolution of the aggrieved groups, each of which would nominate a member in order to pursue the party’s reconciliation process in concert with the briefs of the Alao-Akala committee. This call came on Saturday at the ongoing APC reconciliation meeting held at the Ibadan residence of Alao-Akala, Chairman of the APC reconciliation committee. It was suggested at the forum, attended by APC chieftains and other party loyalists that the current executive committee of the party should be allowed to complete its term contrary to an earlier call for its dissolution. The call for the dissolution, members noted, would upset the ongoing reconciliatory efforts and plunge the party into deeper crises. The governorship candidate of the party in the 2019 election, Bayo Adelabu, and other key stakeholders said that the executive members of the party should stay in office till their tenure expires in 18 months’ time. Alao-Akala said once the party members embrace peace in the interest of the party, the APC would be strong once more. However, the aggrieved members said those who purchased forms in anticipation of a change of party executives, should be refunded. Meanwhile, a communiqué issued at the end of stakeholders meeting held on Saturday read in part, “All party structures must be supported and strengthened and party discipline maintained. The success of the reconciliation exercise must be a collective effort. All members are enjoined to forgive the past and reunite for collective success. All efforts must be harnessed to launch the party into victory in 2023.” The forum also agreed that the meeting of the party stakeholders is a continuous process to consider and accommodate the views of stakeholders. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 