Johnny Edward Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen says he is looking forward to a fresh challenge at Napoli, adding that he has been overwhelmed by the reception he received since he arrived at the club, The PUNCH reports. Osimhen, who was presented to the media alongside Amir Rrahmani, another new signing, on Wednesday, stated that his arrival at the club was a big leap in his career. The Nigeria international joined the Italian giants on a five-year-deal for an African record €81m, including add-ons, after an impressive debut season at Lille, where he scored 18 goals in 38 appearances across all competitions. “The president and the coach wanted me strongly, they talked to me a lot even before coming here. For me, they were both like a father because they gave me so much advice,” Osimhen told a press conference on Wednesday. “I decided to accept the challenge with Napoli after speaking with them. It is difficult to receive all the love they have shown me. “I was very well received, I found wonderful guys. Being here is a dream come true and I’m delighted to have found such a great club and such a warm environment. “For a young player like me, having this affection is fundamental. I’ve always been convinced that Naples was the best choice for me both for the present and for the future. “I’m in a group of great champions. For me, being here means I have made a big leap in quality. What interests me is giving a lot to the team and being useful to my teammates.” On the issue of racism in Italy, the 21-year-old added, “There was a bit of skepticism on my part because it is a matter that belongs to the whole world. “Then I visited the city of Naples, I saw the environment with my own eyes and I realised that I am in a wonderful city. The issue of racism is a problem that exists everywhere but I’m sure I have chosen well because the Neapolitans will make me feel at home with their affection.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  