Coach Godwin Izilein led the Super Falcons to the 2004 African Women’s Cup of Nations title in South Africa. In this interview with ’TANA AIYEJINA, the Edo-born tactician talks about the crisis that rocked the squad after their victory, and his frustrations after being denied his share of the win bonus Sixteen years after winning the African Women’s Cup of Nations in South Africa as the Super Falcons coach, you’ve not been paid your allowances. There are allegations that you encouraged the players to stage a protest in Johannesburg to ensure they get paid before returning to Nigeria… (Cuts in) I got a call from someone recently and he said I engineered the girls to go on rampage, that I told them to refuse to return to Nigeria after the 2004 AWCON in South Africa. There was nothing like that. What happened was that the girls said I told them the management wanted us not to ask for their money till after the competition, which they accepted. On the morning of our departure, I went to the team’s secretary, Tayo. I said, ‘please, can I have my money? I’m going for the press briefing.’ They said they were going to pay in Nigeria. I told them, ‘you go and tell the girls yourselves. I’m going for the meeting.’ It was at the heat of the meeting that a journalist Bassey Koma told me that the girls were on the verge of rioting and refusing to return to Nigeria. I asked why and they said it was because they were not paid their money. I asked the secretary to address them, because they sent me to the girls, which I did and they accepted. I will not have the moral justification to go back to the girls and tell them they would get their money in Nigeria. It’s unprofessional for any coach to incite his players against the government or management. It’s never done anywhere. So I’m telling you categorically that I never did that. Do you know that at a point, I went on my knees and begged the girls? They just want to smear my name and it’s unfair. I did that job just to prove a lot of people wrong. Before I left for South Africa, they said how can Izilein coach the team? Why should anybody castigate me now for nothing? The girls who were the culprits were paid their allowances and they got N1m each and I, who should be commended, is now being castigated. I think it’s unfair. Is it true ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo directed that you shouldn’t be paid because of the players revolt in South Africa? Obasanjo did not say that I should not be paid. He merely asked what happened and that he was disappointed that the girls would behave that way. Yet, he still gave them scholarships for those of them who were willing to go to school at the time.  Although, he did not ask us that time, I would have gone to any part of the world to study too. In fact, my legitimate money, no one can deny me of that because I did not commit any offence. My total sum of money is $12,000 plus the N2m from government. If I had such money in my account, I know what should have accrued to me in interest by now. Some of them, out of wickedness, are trying to castigate my name, to give a dog a bad name just to kill the dog, but my God will not allow it. There’s no vacuum in governance, that’s why I’m calling on the present Nigeria Football Federation board led by Amaju Pinnick to pay me my money. It’s my sweat. How were you or the federation able to convince the girls before getting to Nigeria? Look at what happened to me, the NFA (now NFF) chairman, Ibrahim Galadinma, said I should follow him to Nigeria and I said, ‘no, I cannot.’ I’m like a general to these girls. How can I leave my soldiers in the warfront? No, I won’t go anywhere until everything is settled.’ They called the consulate in South Africa and they came to our rescue. What they did was that after one week, there was nothing. We were on our own, no food, nothing. The South African federation gave us accommodation and that was all, no food. The consulate paid the allowances and they said when we got to Nigeria, the officials would be paid. I was very happy. One of the things that struck me most was that HIV there is like malaria in Nigeria. And because of that, we never stepped into the streets. I made sure that the girls were properly kept and managed and the consulate officials also assisted. When we got to Nigeria, we went to Aso Rock and we told them what happened and even wrote to that effect. I have my documents about what happened and there was no way anybody could hold me responsible. I’m happy because even when the girls returned to Nigeria, they were interviewed and they said NFF was fond of owing them, though not in my time of course. Was it only allowances the consulate paid the players? The consulate paid the players’ allowances and the FG gave them their cheques for 1m. What efforts have you made in the last 16 years to ensure that you get paid? I have consistently written to every NFF administration. The NFF president Pinnick came to Benin in 2017. We saw the Edo Governor (Godwin Obaseki) and his deputy (Philip Shaibu), Pinnick said, ‘Izilein, we owe you and we will make sure that you are paid very soon.’ But since 2017 till date, nothing has happened. I have called and sent many people to him, yet nothing has happened.  If I tell you how many times I’ve been to Abuja for me to be paid, you will sympathise with me. Foreigners hired to manage the country’s national teams don’t get treated this way. Do you think it’s because local coaches are less qualified than their foreign counterparts? We have qualified Nigerian coaches who’ve got the pedigree to manage the Falcons if given an adequate and conducive environment to perform. When you pay a foreigner $40, 000 a month, the indigenous coach can accept $5,000 with all happiness and do a better job. What do the foreigners know more than us? Most of them were our classmates in Europe. If you are handling a team of that magnitude and with no requisite means to make you do the job well, you cannot perform. We overvalue foreigners over our own. It’s not good for us. Where did our administrators get their training from? Most of us are foreign-trained. We trained abroad and came back. It looks absurd when you say there’s a need for foreign coaches when you have well-trained coaches here. Maybe, one day, they will say they are looking for judges from overseas to come and handle our judiciary for us. This is a smack on our faces, especially the indigenous coaches. It’s not fair. We can afford to make mistakes and remain unlike the man that was hired abroad, when he loses, he leaves after being paid some colossal amount to do a rubbish job. You also had issues with the federation when you managed the Golden Eaglets… (Cuts in) My problem was that I was with the Falcons at some point and at the same time, I was handling the Golden Eaglets. I had no time to concentrate despite qualification for the U-17 Nations Cup.  We were only knocked out when we had equal points with Ivory Coast and South Africa. But if I had a chance with that team, we would have done something else. When I went to Gambia (for the U-17 AFCON), I saw men playing against kindergartens. How have you been managing 16 years after quitting the Falcons without pay? While you are working, don’t forget to do things right, make sure you put your kids in good schools because they are the ones you will call on at the nick of time. My children are so supportive. They even told me not to ask for the money again but I refused because I worked for it. They gave me the two vehicles that I’m using now. They gave me a lot but I told them, ‘my children, what is mine is mine.’ I worked for it and if I don’t ask for it, others following me will suffer the same fate. I’m blessed with 11 children. I always pray for them because if not for them, it would be a different story. The hallmark is to take care of one’s children because they will always take care of you. What’s your advice to up-and-coming Nigerian coaches? I will advise them to study their contracts and make it legal, so that any side that defaults will be prosecuted. The second one is that the contract alone is not suffice. They should give you a conducive atmosphere to work. We are Nigerians, we should be treated well more than the foreigners. Do you think a white man will pick me and treat me better than his own? Look at what is going on now because of racism, our boys are just playing because they are good, if not, they would have been kicked out. Why not prepare your own? We would beat these white countries if everything is provided for us. If you are giving a white man good money, why can’t you give a Nigerian $10, 000? The money circulates here but the white man will take the money away. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 