Nike Popoola The President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Sir Muftau Oyegunle, has said the instrument of accession of the agreement for the establishment of the African Trade Insurance Agency which was signed by the Federal Government will boost the country’s gross domestic product. Oyegunle said underwriters would provide business covers for investors in the continent as well as political risk covers. He said these in a statement on Friday entitled ‘CIIN applauds approval of Africa Trade Insurance Agency.’ “The growth of the agency would go a long way in creating an enabling platform for foreign trade and equally engender economic activity within the sector that would ensure improved contribution of the insurance sector to the nation’s gross domestic product,” he said. According to the statement, he said this while reacting to the statement credited to the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, which said that the Federal Government had signed the instrument of accession of the agreement for the establishment of the ATI. Oyegunle stated that the Federal Government had demonstrated first-hand its commitment to the growth of the insurance industry in Nigeria. He said, “ATI is a pan-African institution that provides political risk insurance to companies, investors, and lenders interested in doing business in Africa. “Its deep African roots have positioned the organisation to understand and assess the risks synonymous with the region and to help mitigate them. “Its reputation as well as its credibility, financial strength, underwriting capacity, its robust risk solutions and risk assessment have ensured that it is credibly rated by clients.” Oyegunle stated that the signing was coming at a time when the insurance industry was in need of all the benefits that the Act would bring to the fore. He also commended the Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, for his stewardship of the National Insurance Commission so far, and stated that this development was an indicator that the insurance industry was on an upward curve. The CIIN president urged insurance professionals to continue to uphold the values of professionalism in line with the code of ethics and professional conduct as stipulated by the institute to ensure the industry sustains its growth. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com