Manchester City are looking to sign as many as four more players during the transfer window and want their business done by the start of the new season on September 12. Nathan Ake completed a £41m transfer from Bournemouth on Wednesday evening. Ake will join Ferran Torres at the Etihad Stadium after the Spain U-21 winger joined from Valencia on Tuesday for an initial £20.8m fee, plus a number of add ons, Skysports report. Defenders are now the priority, but deals for both a left-back and a second centre half, most likely Napoli’s Kalidou Koulibaly, are still some way off. Further up the pitch, City face the daunting task of finding long-term replacements for two Premier League legends in David Silva and Sergio Aguero. Inter Milan’s Lautaro Martinez remains the number one choice to fill the number 9 shirt, while The Athletic have reported City had enquired about the availability of Atletico Madrid’s Joao Felix, who has endured a difficult start following his £113m move last year from Benfica.  READ ALSO: Ajagba joins Fury, Pacquiao’s boxing team  The 25-year-old defender only returned from holiday on Tuesday and a day later was confirmed as Pep Guardiola’s second summer signing. Ake’s move was a club-record sale for Bournemouth, and the defender said he is excited about playing under Guardiola. “City have been the best side in England over the course of the last decade,” he said. “Coming here is a dream for me. This is a top side full of world-class players. Everywhere you look in this squad there are big names with international pedigree. “Pep is a manager admired across the world – what he’s done in the game speaks for itself. The success he’s had is unbelievable and the style of football he plays really appeals to me”. Ake moved to Bournemouth from Chelsea for a club-record £20m deal in 2017 and was linked with a return to Stamford Bridge. Chelsea had a buy-back clause on the Netherlands international but it is understood Frank Lampard was not interested in re-signing him. Ake made 29 appearances for Bournemouth last season as they were relegated to the Championship, finishing a point from safety in 18th place.