Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.), has charged the newly commissioned Nigerian Air Force officers of Direct Short Service Commission Course 29/2020 to positively deploy the knowledge acquired during their training to defend the territorial integrity and national interests. The President gave this charge on Saturday during the Passing Out Parade of 114 DSSC officer cadets held at the NAF Base, Kaduna, after six months of military training at the NAF’s Military Training Centre. The NAF spokesman, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola in a statement, said the successful completion of military training of the officer cadets was another laudable step by the current NAF leadership as part of its human capacity building initiatives to meet the nation’s security challenges. The statement titled, ‘Internal security: President Buhari charges newly commissioned NAF direct short service officers to defend the nation’s territorial integrity, national interests,’ disclosed that the commissioned officers include two medical consultants, 14 medical and veterinary doctors, 20 nurses and 78 other medical specialists. While congratulating them for withstanding the rigours of the training, the Reviewing Officer/special guest of honour at the POP, who was represented by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin, reminded them that the occasion was just the beginning of yet another challenging but rewarding career as young officers in the NAF. He further reminded them that the military profession requires absolute discipline, loyalty and hard work, among other virtues. “Such noble service demands exceptional courage, commitment and patriotism and Nigeria will continue to demand such qualities from you”, he added. Speaking further, the President stated, “Therefore, as you graduate, I urge you all to positively deploy the training that has been inculcated in you to defend the territorial integrity and national interest of our dear country.” One of the highlights of the POP was the presentation of awards to deserving passing out cadets. Among the award winners were Flying Officer Mbam Ndubisi who won the President’s award for coming first in order of merit, while Flying Officer Lekon Mustapha won the Minister of Defence award for coming second. Other award winners were Flying Officer Samaila Yusuf, who came third, winning the CDS’ award, and Flying Officer Ummu Muhammed, who won the CAS’ award for coming fourth, while Flying Officer Abdulkadir Ahmad won the Commandant MTC’s award for exhibiting exceptional leadership qualities in the course of training.