No fewer than 20 persons were ambushed, attacked and brutally killed on August 7, 2020, by gunmen believed to be Fulani herdsmen, in four communities in the Zango Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The attacks, which were not the first in the year, lasted for two days and ravaged the communities; Apyia’Shyim, A’Piako, Atak’Mawei and Kibori, which are all in Atyap Chiefdom in the Southern Kaduna region of Zangon Kataf. As the communities counted their losses and mourned the death of 33 residents, going by their estimate, the Kaduna State Police Command noted using a rhetoric that has become common – that it had deployed more policemen to the affected areas. The Police Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, added the following day that 21 persons were killed and three injured during the attacks – which suggested the massacre had taken place before the police even began planning reinforcement. The attack on August 7 is one of several problems which have engulfed the Southern Kaduna region, to the embarrassment of the state government, Federal Government, armed forces, police and other security agencies. The crisis in Southern Kaduna dates back to a decade of mistrust, suspicion and resource control between the local dwellers and migrating herdsmen, who now appear to enjoy more impunity. Over the last five years, specifically under the President, Major General Muhamadu Buhari’s (retd.) regime, more than 1,000 lives have been lost to these attacks – with the residents, local farmers and herdsmen sharing the statistics of the victims.  According to explanations put forward by several northern elite, some of the clashes happened due to feeling of hatred towards the migrating herdsmen, the forceful takeover of land and other resources of the locals by the migrants, ethnic domination and religious differences. From violence that starts as reprisals, the crisis has become full blown with daytime looting, arson and killing of community dwellers, including women and children. The invaders have a culture of trespassing on farmlands, which have led to clashes with farmers. A security expert and retired Commissioner of Police, Lawrence Alobi, said the way out of the crisis is for the government and security agencies to partner on information gathering and intelligence sharing. He said, “We need to have a problem-solving approach because all of us have failed in one way or the other. The missing link is the lack of trust. There is no trust as the people don’t trust their government. There is suspicion. You have the Christians and Muslims pointing accusing fingers at each other. “The Southern Kaduna problem has lingered on for years. Information gathering is important; we need to share intelligence. What the security agencies should do is to gather information and share intelligence. Then, we can analyse and utilise our intelligence to forestall insecurity. But lack of trust is a major problem. If the government shares information sincerely, the problem of insecurity will be dealt with gradually. “This is the wrong time for blame game. The government, people and traditional rulers all have a responsibility to see that this crisis ends. The government, as delegated to it by the constitution, has a responsibility to safeguard the lives and property of the citizens.” But from 2015 till date, the vicious cycle of killings across the communities has continued, a development which has also adversely affected the socio-economic and religious lives of the Southern Kaduna people. Most times, the communities only resort to protests and the police use tear gas to disperse the protesters. On August 8, 2020, protesters in the Chikun Local Government Area of the state, clad in dark attire, carried placards with inscriptions such as “Enough is Enough,” “We cannot continue like this,” “Southern Kaduna lives matter,” “Government has failed us,” “Allow us to defend ourselves if you can’t,” and “End killings in Southern Kaduna”. Later, as it has become their custom, the police came to disperse the peaceful protesters. Perhaps due to the government’s ineptitude, residents also sought spiritual help at different times, calling for special prayer programmes to ask God to deliver them from the ravaging gunmen. The Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria, in the first week of August 2020 directed all bishops to encourage their congregants to partake in a 40-day special prayer for divine intervention to be conducted after the daily Angelus. Also, last Sunday, some communities in the Zangon Kataf Local Government Area embarked on a seven-day prayer and fasting to call on God to end the killings in the areas. The fasting and prayers began on Monday, August 10, and ended the following Sunday. As concerns rise nationwide over the situation in Southern Kaduna, several explanations have been given on why the killings and violence persisted in the region, especially from 2015 till date. The explanations have varied just as the incidents. The Pentecostal Bishops’ Forum of the 19 northern states had two weeks ago alleged that the killings in Southern Kaduna happened due to “wicked collaboration,” which “assumed a dangerous dimension of ethnic cleansing”. According to the PBF, the manner of the killings has given the impression of a sinister script to overrun the people and forcefully annex their ancestral heritage in all ramifications. The Chairman of the PBF, who is also the President of Dominion Chapel International Church, Bishop John Praise, said, “Failure to act now may compel the people to resort to self-help and reprisals, which could snowball into a conflagration of monumental proportions in terms of scope and impact. We are here to ventilate the anguish of Nigerians over the incessant killings carried out by bloodthirsty armed militia, bandits and terrorists specifically on the defenceless people of Southern Kaduna. “We also demand the prompt arrest and prosecution of the perpetrators of the dastardly acts as well as their sponsors, whoever and wherever they may be.” A security expert and former Director of the Department of State Services, Mr Mike Ejiofor, told our correspondent that the state government made errors in the past and it must now work out a lasting and workable solution to the crisis. Ejiofor said, “The protection of lives and property is the primary purpose of any government. The indigenes are right to ask the government for protection. Panels upon panels have been set up on Southern Kaduna but to compound the issues, the governor has been making some provocative statements. “You recall how the state governor begged herdsmen that they should stop the killings because he is also a Fulani. The governor has also claimed that some people in the Southern Kaduna region are demanding money and he would not give them. But generally, the way forward is that the state government must fashion out a workable and lasting solution to this crisis.” For the lawmaker representing Zagon Kataf and Jaba Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Mr Amos Magaji, the crisis festered because the government was not sincere and was perceived to be taking sides rather than calling for dialogue. In a recent interview, Magaji said, “First of all, the government needs to come clean. That is, the government needs to be involved and stop taking sides. They should look at the crisis and not feel this side is at fault and that side is not at fault. “They should also sincerely investigate the problem and bring about a lasting solution. A situation where they are already feeling that this or that person is at fault will bring a lot of problems. When it comes to investigation and prosecution, let there be justice so that the Fulani people will not feel that the government is protecting the Kataf people and the Kataf people should not feel the government is protecting the Fulani people. Once there is justice, it will make people take the right actions and deter them from committing crime. “The government needs to sit down with the people in the community and find a lasting solution to the crisis. Apart from military intervention, there should be dialogue.” The military has also deployed more troops to the troubled region in recent times, although the deployments do not appear to have had any significant impact. On August 13, 2020, Defence Headquarters, Abuja, stated that the Special Forces drawn from Operation Safe Haven were carrying out patrols at the various flashpoints in the communities, noting that the move was expected to curtail the bloodshed in the area. The attacks may reduce with more military deployments, but it is believed that there would be a resurgence once the military takes its leave. The Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, who is the first accountable person in the crises, as the chief executive officer of the state, has blamed some leaders of the affected communities for politicising the attacks to ridicule and extort money from his government. In a recent interview on Channels Television, the state governor accused some of the Southern Kaduna leaders of being behind the unrest and looking for gratification which his administration was not ready to give. El-Rufai said, “I have no time for nonsense. I will not appease criminals. I will not appease idle people who have nothing to do but to raise a spectre of genocide. They do that to get money into their bank accounts and get donations from abroad instead of standing up. “They have come up with other things because the money they got during the election is exhausted and they can say whatever they want to say. But I want everyone to know this – I will not appease troublemakers, I will not tolerate people that incite. I will map them; we will arrest and prosecute them. That is my style; I obey the rule of law.” Perhaps apparent that his government was begging the question, El-Rufai on Monday noted that his administration had started to install closed-circuit television cameras in the southern part of the state as part of efforts to tackle insecurity. “We are also addressing the technology side of security, through the procurement of drones, the award of contracts to install CCTVs in phases in Kaduna, Kafanchan and Zaria metropolitan areas, build a command and control centre and establish a forensic laboratory,” the state government was quoted as saying in a release. A political expert and President of the Campaign for Democracy, a civil society, Mr Usman Abdul, noted that the state government, starting with the governor, must be closer to the people and feel the pulse of the troubled communities, especially. “Whoever is bereaved needs to be shown some element of sympathy,” he said. “The governor in a recent interview said he had not been going to Southern Kaduna, and this is unfortunate despite the killings. The governor should be a true leader, even if he feels the Southern Kaduna people do not love him, he is responsible for them as the chief security officer of the state. “He needs to give more roles to the community leaders so that they will be accountable for whoever comes into their communities. If anyone is apprehended, they should be dealt with by the long arm of the law. “If the security apparatus was working and getting enough intelligence, we would not be witnessing this level of killings.  Some months ago, there was an attack in one of the Southern Kaduna communities, and people were killed. “My team went there on a fact-finding mission; when we got to the area, we were shocked to be told that only the Divisional Police Officer had visited the community. There was no government official and no support from anywhere. This is wrong and it suggests that the government is far from the people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 