Nike Popoola Nigerian Breweries Plc has said it recorded N152bn in revenue and N5.7bn profit after tax in its half-year period ended June 30, 2020. The company said this in a statement on Monday, with the title ‘Nigerian Breweries Plc earns N151bn revenue, N5.7bn profit for the first half of 2020.’ It said a breakdown of its unaudited results showed a decline in revenue, compared to the N170bn recorded in the corresponding period of 2019. The company said the results showed a strong balance sheet despite several factors that negatively impacted on the company’s operations. It said the factors included an increase in excise duty, a rise in inflation, an increase in Value Added Tax from five per cent to 7.5 per cent, as well as the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on businesses worldwide. The company said despite the challenges, its financial position showed stability and sustained profitability. To support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the company said during the period under review, it made various donations in cash and kind valued at about N531m, out of a phased commitment of N600m to the federal and state governments’ COVID-19 relief funds. Nigerian Breweries said, “The board of directors commended the company’s management for its efforts to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on the business, as well as the prudent management of its resources as reflected in a seven per cent reduction in expenses incurred on marketing, distribution, and administration. “The board expressed confidence that the company is well-positioned to continue to deliver return on investment to shareholders.” According to the statement, the company’s priority during the period remained ensuring the health, safety and welfare of employees, customers and partners. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 