Johnny Edward Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen has apologised to The PUNCH after his comments on Twitter on Sunday. In a report titled ‘Osimhen: I want to emulate Maradona at Napoli’ and published in SUNDAY PUNCH of August 9, 2020, Osimhen was quoted by respected German sports website www.sport1.de as saying, “I am proud to join a club who have seen great players like Maradona, Higuain and Cavani. I also want to go into the club’s history. I want to have a good Serie A and also help the club in the Europa League.” But the striker, who recently joined Italian giants Napoli, in a tweet on Sunday, denied the report culled from www.sport1.de, saying he never granted an interview to the media since he lost his father in May, using obscene language. However, few hours later, the 2015 U-17 World Cup winner took to Twitter again to apologise to The PUNCH “for the type of language I used in my earlier post.” He wrote, “As much as I dislike being misquoted or taken out of context by the media, I want to apologise to @MobilePunch and other journalists that felt offended for the type of language I used in my earlier post, sorry about it, make una no vex I still be una boy…peace.” Osimhen, 21, joined Napoli on a five-year contract with an option for an additional year in a record €81m deal, including bonuses, to make him the most expensive African footballer ever, ahead of Ivory Coast’s Nicholas Pepe, who joined Arsenal last summer from Lille. The PUNCH had reported extensively the protracted transfer negotiations between Osimhen’s former club Lille and Napoli, with the 2015 U-17 World Cup Golden Boot winner appearing on the cover of Saturday PUNCH of August 1, 2020 with the story headline ‘€81m Napoli deal: How Lagos hawker became Africa’s costliest footballer.’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 