Dayo Ojerinde The Managing Director, Transgreen Nigeria Limited, Mr Cyprian Orakpo, has stressed the need for Nigerians to maintain respiratory hygiene to curb the spread of COVID-19. Orakpo, at the unveiling of O-Care Medical Facemask by the firm, said the wearing of facemask had become a part of the ‘new normal’. He added that the firm had commenced the daily production of 240,000 indigenous facemasks as part of its contribution to the fight against COVID-19. Orakpo said as long as there was no cure for COVID-19, facemasks and other personal protective equipment would continue to be in high demand. “As an organisation, we believe that by making affordable medical face mask available and accessible to all, we are helping Nigerians and indeed Africans to live and work freely, learn, and play, create and work, doing the wonderful things that keep humanity moving forward during these trying times. “The world is yet to find a preventive vaccine to arrest this scourge. In the absence of curative drugs, facemasks and other medical devices like gloves, PPE, ventilators have become a national security product. “Respiratory hygiene has taken a centre stage in curbing the spread of this contagious virus. Wearing a facemask has become the new normal,” Orakpo said. He said it was embarrassing that there was no local medical facemask manufacturing facility in Nigeria before the COVID-19 pandemic. “Transgreen Nigeria Limited has risen to the occasion to fill this void and contribute her quota as the first indigenous company to produce local medical facemask. This factory is primed to produce up to 240,000 medical facemasks daily. “O-Care 3-ply medical face mask offers protection against dust, pollen, bacteria and all known viruses with breathable comfort and low respiratory resistance. This product is durable and manufactured to the World Health Organisation standard,” Orakpo said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 