Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Troops of Operation Hadarin Daji have intercepted firearms heading for Zamfara State and recovered 11 locally-made rifles and 150 cartridges hidden in different parts of a Toyota Corolla car with registration number, Dal 41 MT. Five occupants of the vehicle were arrested by the security operatives who found that the weapons were being taken to Kofar Dinya in Bukkuyum Local Government Area of the state. The operatives had also killed no fewer than 25 bandits and arrested over 150 others terrorising the North-West region Disclosing this in Abuja on Thursday at the weekly briefing on the ongoing security operations across the country, the Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj. Gen. John Enenche, said the troops equally recovered two AK47 rifles and magazines at Zurmi in Zurmi LGA of Zamfara State. He said, “Troops on August 23, 2020, conducted a well-coordinated intelligence-based operation leading to the raid of an illegal mining site located along Gadan Zaima – Zuru road in Bukuyyum LGA which also serves as bandits’ hideout. During the operation, 150 suspects were arrested and arms and ammunition were recovered.” Enenche said investigations revealed that aside from sabotaging the nation’s economy, banditry was being financed through illegal mining activities. Similarly, the troops on fighting patrol reportedly encountered three bandits on motorcycles around Maigalma village in Anka LGA of Zamfara State while attempting to attack innocent residents. The DHQ noted that one of the bandits was neutralized while the others escaped, adding that the security forces recovered one AK47 rifle, one magazine loaded with five rounds of 7.62mm ammunition and two motorcycles from the fleeing criminals. Enenche further revealed that between 19 – 20 August, seven trucks loaded with cattle suspected to have been rustled were arrested along Jibia – Katsina road and Gusau – Zaria road, respectively. READ ALSO: Buhari fires Dokubo as amnesty programme coordinator, names interim administrator The recovered cattle and suspects were handed over to Katsina State Police Command and Zamfara State Association of Rustled Animals for further action. The Coordinator further said, “Within the period, a total of 155 bandits were arrested, no fewer than 25 armed bandits killed and over 1000 livestock were recovered in this (North West) zone of the country.”