Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Federal Government, on Friday, redeployed 13 permanent secretaries and deployed the 12 new ones inaugurated on Wednesday. Fifteen out of the nation’s 40 permanent secretaries will, however, remain in their current stations. The circular conveying the redeployment and deployment was signed by the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan. The circular, dated August 28, 2020, was marked HCSF/CMO/AOD/012/V.III/39. It read, “His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, has approved the deployment and redeployment of the under-listed permanent secretaries. “Accordingly, handing and taking over processes should be completed on the effective dates indicated.” Among the 12 new permanent secretaries inaugurated by the President on Wednesday, Babangida Hussaini was posted to the Ministry of Defence; Yerim Tarfa to Ministry of Labour and Employment; Bayayo Ardo to Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs; Adaora Anyanwutaku to Ministry of Women Affairs; Anthonia Ekpa to Ministry of Foreign Affairs; and Oluwatoyin Akinlade to Ministry of Mines and Steel Development. Others are Aliyu Mohammed-Special Services (Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation; Emmanuel Meribale-Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation- Service Policies and Strategy Office; Monilola Udoh-Federal Civil Service Commission, Mamman Mahmuda-OHCSF-Career Management Office; Bashir Alkali-Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development; and Shuaib Belgore-Ministry of Interior. The 13 permanent secretaries that were redeployed included Chinyeaka Ohaa, who was moved from Federal Capital Territory to Ministry of Power; William Alo from Ministry of Labour and Employment to Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs; Olusade Adesola from Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs to FCT; Esther Jack from Ministry of Power to Ministry of Water Resources; and Akpan Sunday from Ministry of Mines and Steel Development to Ministry of Science and Technology. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 