Oladimeji Ramon and Grace Edema The Dr Wale-Babalakin-led Governing Council of the University of Lagos says the institution’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Toyin Ogundipe, was sacked for his alleged reckless spending of the varsity’s funds and breach of due process. The allegations were contained in a statement titled, “I prefer to be probed by Professor of Public Sector Accounting, not Chemistry lecturer, says Prof Ogundipe in defence at UNILAG Council Meeting.” According to the council, the Dr Saminu Dagara-led committee that probed Ogundipe reported that the VC and some members of his management team spent N57.9m on foreign trips, while they purchased two vehicles for N52.08m using “a contract splitting device that is very illegal.” The committee also reported that Ogundipe’s management allegedly spent N52.2m on waste management and janitorial services “in breach of procurement law and practices.” The VC was also alleged to have spent N112.4m to renovate the official living quarters of three principal staff, including the VC’s lodge, renovated with N49.4m. The N112.4m, according to the committee, was without the council’s approval and was well above the VC’s approval limit of N2m. “In the last six months, Prof. Ogundipe has recklessly been spending university money without giving any accounts. “For instance, while the council approved spending towards staff palliative for COVID-19, he claimed he spend N67m on this without providing any breakdown of his spending,” the council stated in the statement. Efforts to get Ogundipe’s reactions to the allegations on Sunday proved abortive. One of our correspondents called his mobile line eight times, sent SMS and WhatsApp messages to his phone, neither did he pick the calls nor responded to the messages till press time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 