Samson Folarin Shepherd Superintendent of the Household of God Church, Rev Chris Okotie, says members of his church will not resume congregational worship on Sunday, August 9, 2020. This was contained in a statement released by the church on Thursday titled, ‘Why We Can’t Wear Mask In Church’. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had last week okayed the reopening of worship centres in the state effective August 7 after over four months of closure due to lockdown occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. The governor had approved that Muslim faithful could start attending congregational worships in mosques from Friday while Christians could also start attending physical church services from Sunday. Sanwo-Olu also advised worshippers to obey health protocol during services including physical distancing, use of face masks and good hygiene practice. But Okotie in the statement said the Lagos-based church would not reopen for physical services. The clergy, who stressed that though it is imperative to curb the spread of the virus by obeying all safety protocol including the use of masks, however, said “the wearing of masks or face shields was unacceptable” during worship services. READ ALSO: Travellers to arrive three hours before international flights “Citing various Bible references, the clergy said, for Christians to wear any type of mask or face shield to church, is to reintroduce the veil which was torn the moment Jesus died on the cross. With the tearing of the veil, there is no longer separation between God and his people,” the statement read in part. “When a man is standing before God in church wearing a shield or mask, he is denying the finished work of the cross.” Okotie’s teaching, however, runs contrary to the World Health Organization advisory on face masks. Since the pandemic stormed our world months ago, the WHO has consistently emphasised the use of personal protective equipment including face masks/face shields, especially while in public places. The global health coordination agency stressed that the use of face masks is important to prevent person-to-person transmission of the virus because “COVID-19 virus is primarily transmitted between people via respiratory droplets and contact routes. Droplet transmission occurs when a person is in close contact (within 1 metre) with an infected person and exposure to potentially infective respiratory droplets occurs, for example, through coughing, sneezing or very close personal contact resulting in the inoculation of entry portals such as the mouth, nose or conjunctivae.”