Johnny Edward Top Nigerian athletes say they will shun ongoing international meets as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, The PUNCH reports. Sporting events, including athletics, have been halted due to coronavirus until July when the Diamond League returned to the circuit. Ese Brume, Ogho-Oghene Egwero and Patience Okon-George are some of the notable athletes currently in Nigeria due to COVID-19, while the likes of Tobi Amusan, Divine Oduduru and Seye Ogunlewe, who are abroad, are competing in international events. Amusan competed at the Back to the Track Series III Meeting in Texas on August 9, and finished fifth in 11.69secs in the 400m hurdles. Oduduru has taken part in two races since the sports returned globally, while Ogunlewe also competed at the BFTTA Open in Dagenham (London). Egwero told our correspondent that he would rather stay back in the country and take part in the National Sports Festival before traveling to Europe for preparations for the 2020 Olympics. The 2018 National Sports Festival 100m silver medallist ruled himself out of the Kip Keino Classic in Kenya on October 3. “I didn’t make entry for the Diamond League because I was trapped in Nigeria when the outbreak started. There’s no way I can travel out of the country now. If I do, I have to quarantine myself for some days due to the protocols,” the two-time Olympian told The PUNCH. “My preparations have been going on smoothly in Nigeria. It could have been better but just that the stadium in Asaba has been locked up because part of the place is being used as an isolation centre in the state. I will wait and take part in the forthcoming 2020 Sports Festival in Edo state.” Brume, who is the 2019 World Championships bronze medallist, arrived Nigeria in March with the hope of competing at the National Sports Festival and then return to her base Cyprus, but she’s been tied down in Nigeria. “I’m trying to cope with the current situation but it has not been easy,” Brume said. “COVID-19 happened suddenly and I’m trying to manage as best as I can and hope that things will become normal eventually. Postponing the Olympics was kind of sad but what can we do? “Hopefully when it is time for the Olympics, we will all be ready, because right now we aren’t fully training. I’m just here and waiting for this to pass.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   