Adeyinka Olaseni, Benin The factional Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Mr Frank Okiye, has written to the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, asking him  not to allow the police to be used to achieve undemocratic objectives  in the state. Okiye, in an another letter  dated August 6, 2020, written to the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, advised the AGF not to allow his office to be used to turn the state into a theatre of war. The state House of Assembly was factionalised on Thursday when 17 members impeached Okiye and elected Victor Edoror to replace him. The 17 lawmakers consist of   three lawmakers supporting the All Progressives Congress governorship candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu and 14 members-elect, who were sworn in on Thursday, more than a year after the inauguration of the House. Before the House became factionalised, policemen had, as early as 7am, arrived at the Assembly. The state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, who is the Peoples Democratic Party governorship candidate,   later came to the Assembly to address his supporters. After Obaseki’s departure, youths believed to be his supporters removed the roofs of the Assembly and used granites to block its gates. Recall that the crisis in the state started last year when the APC was divided into two factions, with one group loyal to the governor, while the other had the backing of the immediate past National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole. Okiye’s lawyers,  Ken E Mozia and Co, in a letter dated August 9, 2020  written to the IG, said the police boss should not allow political actors to misuse the police. The letter was titled, “Re-Letter titled, ‘Urgent and nationalistic appeal to intervene in the restoration of constitutional democracy in Edo State of Nigeria” The lawyers alleged that there were plans to impeach the governor and his Deputy, Philip Shaibu. They said, “The police should not be associated with such undemocratic and patently undemocratic acts. “The governorship election is just six weeks away. Political actors should be encouraged to await the outcome of the scheduled election rather than seek to misuse the police authorities in an attempt to achieve clearly undemocratic and unlawful objectives.” A copy of the letter written by the lawyers was sent to the AGF. In the letter, the lawyers stated, “We are still in shock that you (the AGF) issued the directive contained in your letter of  5th August 2020 to the Inspector General of Police without any attempt to hear from our clients and without any contact with His Excellency, the Governor of Edo State.” Malami had in the letter dated August 5, 2020, directed the IG to provide for the 17-member faction of the Assembly to enable them to perform their duties. In another letter to the AGF dated August 6, 2020 and titled, ‘Re-Edo State House of Assembly,’  Okiye fauled the AGF’s directive to the IG. He stated, “Given the fact that we are six weeks away from the governorship election scheduled for 19 September, 2020, we would plead with you not to allow the enormous prestige of your office to be used by unscrupulous persons to turn our state into a theatre of war.” He said Malami should take another look at the matter “in order to ensure that due process and respect for the legal institutions are not sacrificed at the altar of selfish and ruthless ego.” But a member of the Edoror-led faction, Washington Osifo, in an interview with The PUNCH said no one could stop  Malami from getting involved in the crisis rocking the Assembly. Osifo, a lawyer, said as the chief law officer of the country, Malami was in the best position to give interpretation to the law in a way that would help solve the problem bedevilling the House. “As the chief law officer of the federation, Malami has the right to wade into the problem of Edo State House of Assembly. “He has also said that the 17 lawmakers should be given police protection, which I am sure is the right decision. It will enable us to carry out our legislative function. It is clear that we have the number and since we have been inaugurated, we should be allowed to carry out our function,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com