Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, has returned from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, where she went to treat a severe neck pain. The President’s wife said this in an Instagram post shortly after her return on Saturday. Mrs. Buhari, who returned on a Presidential jet, said they witnessed a turbulence but the pilots were able to weather the storm. She wrote, “I want to use this opportunity to thank all Nigerians for their prayers and well wishes while I was away for medical treatment. I am well now and fully recovered and had since returned back home, Nigeria. “On our way back, the Nigerian Air Force flight encountered a violent clear air turbulence which was navigated safely and professionally by the captain and crew of the flight. “I want to commend and appreciate the courage and professionalism of the captain and his crew, the wonderful gallant service men and women of the entire Nigerian Air Force for their dedication to duty and the quality of maintenance of its fleet.” The President’s wife, while drumming support for Nigeria’s health care sector, called on private health personnel to take advantage of the N100bn fund being disbursed by the Central Bank of Nigeria. She said this would help in reviving the health sector and reducing medical tourism. READ ALSO: Bar Obasanjo, Wike from speaking at conference, Muslim lawyers tell NBA Mrs. Buhari added, “I recall hosting the private health care providers earlier in the year and we had a very productive engagement where the issue of building the capacity of Nigeria health sector was the major focus, and funding was discovered to be the major challenge. “I, therefore, call on the healthcare providers to take the advantage of the Federal Government’s initiative through the Central Bank of Nigeria guidelines for the operation of N100bn credit support for the health care sector as was released recently contained in a circular dated March 25, 2020, to the commercial banks. “This will no doubt help in building and expanding the capacity of the Nigerian health sector and ultimately reduce medical trips and tourism outside the country. Once again, I thank our frontline workers and all Nigerians for their steadfastness as we navigate the challenges facing the entire world.” The President’s wife had travelled out of the country in the first week of August following a severe neck pain.