Nike Popoola Linkage Assurance Plc has said its profit before tax increased by 894 per cent from N134.70m in 2018 to N1.34bn in 2019. The Chairman of the company, Chief Joshua Fumudoh, said this during its 26th annual general meeting held in compliance with COVID-19 directives, according to a statement on Friday entitled ‘Linkage Assurance grows profit by 894 per cent, rewards shareholders with bonus issue.’ The company also said its gross premium written rose by 21 per cent to N6.52bn as of the end of 2019 from N5.39bn in December 2018. It said it rewarded its shareholders with a bonus issue of one for four shares by the capitalisation of N1bn from the company’s general reserve account. Fumudoh said despite the increasingly difficult operating environment, Linkage Assurance made appreciable progress in all fronts. He said the company achieved an underwriting profit of N409m in 2019, compared to the N772m losses in 2018, while net claims paid was N1.7bn, compared to N2.7bn. He said the significant reduction in net claims was a result of improved underwriting and effective reinsurance arrangement. Fumudoh commended the management and staff for the performance of the company, stating that they demonstrated uncommon commitment and dedication to the growth of the business despite the stiff competition and the harsh operating environment. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Linkage Assurance, Mr Daniel Braie, said the company crafted a five-year strategic road map that would guide its operations in achieving both its short and long-term goals. Braie said the four strategic pillars in line with its balanced scorecard framework were business growth, financial excellence, operational excellence and customer intimacy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com