Dayo Ojerinde The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria said it has sealed 268 pharmacies in Lagos for violations that vary from not registering with the authority, not renewing their registration and other infringements. The PCN Registrar, Pharm. Elijah Mohammed, at a briefing in Lagos, condemned the increase in illegal medicine sales outlets in the country. Mohammed, who was represented by the PCN Director, Inspection and Monitoring, Pharm. Anthonia Arya, said the national enforcement team of the association toured different parts of Lagos State during which it handed out compliance directives to 15 premises for various lapses in professional practice. He said the team, which also monitored compliance with the adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines has been in Lagos since August 10. “The national enforcement team of the PCN has been on the ground in Lagos State since August 10, 2020, and visited various parts of the state. Compliance with the guidance on COVID-19 was monitored; a good number of registered pharmacies complied with the guidelines while others were advised to comply. “At the end of the exercise, a total of 565 premises were visited; 268 premises were sealed for not registering or renewing their premises  permit as required by law or infringing on any other provision of the law. 15 premises were also issued compliance directives for lapses that can easily be corrected. “The PCN suspended its enforcement activities due to the lockdown but had to resume when it was discovered that illegal medicines sales outlets with attendant unwholesome practice are springing up due to the exemption from the lockdown given to the pharmaceutical sector to provide pharmaceutical services to the general public during the lockdown.” Mohammed stated that the PCN in fulfilment of its mandate had been carrying out enforcement activities nationwide in a bid to sanitise the distribution value chain towards the provision of quality pharmaceutical services to the general public. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  