The COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown deeply affected commercial activities in Lagos State, especially being the epicentre of the virus in Nigeria, as the head of the tax authority, which sectors were most affected? The pandemic has had certain negative effects globally and of course in Nigeria, so Lagos wasn’t an exception. However, transportation, hospitality, which includes hotels, event centres, restaurants and nightclubs; professional services, construction and energy were the worst hit by the pandemic. Take hospitality as an example, lodging was totally shut down following medical precautions while the restaurants were open for take-away services only for a number of hours. For transportation; air travel, for instance, was shut down completely and the services of ride-hailing services like Uber and Bolt were restricted and at a point, they couldn’t work at all. So, the transportation sector was badly hit too. For some other sectors, it was a mix. How were you able to sustain your activities and get taxpayers to pay despite the negative impact of the pandemic and the lockdown on businesses? When the pandemic came during the first quarter, our management team strategised and came up with a business continuity plan to minimise the effect on our operations. We anticipated there would be a lockdown at some point, considering that was also the procedure adopted in the developing nations that were hit harder than Nigeria at the initial stage. We made sure that our digital systems were oiled to work effectively; we equipped our staff to be able to work from home while our contact centres had well trained personnel. We also had an end-to-end tax administration solution, known as Enterprise Tax, which had been deployed just before the pandemic hit us. With this solution, we were able to reach out to taxpayers virtually and they were able to fulfil their obligations. We set up a revenue task force that basically had the function of running the agency during the lockdown and we administered a questionnaire to taxpayers across the board with the objective of finding out the sectors that would be badly hit, the major companies that would stay in production, among other parameters. We analysed the responses and we were able to plan better. With these, in the first quarter, we had an average of about 80 per cent performance. In April, it dropped to 61 per cent performance, which was still high, considering the fact that the number of compliant companies dropped drastically. But using Pareto analysis, we went after the larger companies we call toppers; the taxpayers that were likely to give us a higher percentage of our collection. This way, we were able to continue operations, not at the optimum level, but at a reasonable level. How did this affect the figures? Before COVID-19, we were operating between N32bn and about N35bn. In January, we made 34.5bn and in March, we made N32bn approximately. In April, which was the month of the lockdown, we made N25.5bn. In May, we had an improvement; it wasn’t a big one, but it moved to N26.6bn. By June, again we had a leap and it moved to about 28.5bn, so you can see upward movement in our collection. These were due to the business continuity plan that we had put in place. A major factor that helped us to achieve this was the big role the governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, played. His daily broadcast on TV created the awareness about what the state was doing and that the state needed funds to provide services. We believe that we benefited from Mr Governor’s good work because people felt concerned. Some called and asked how to donate to the state while some had truckloads of commodities to give out, and many of them said it was a good time to pay their dues if they had outstanding taxes and that they were interested in discussing with us. Many smaller companies struggled to survive during that period let alone pay their taxes; did the state government have any palliatives for them? Yes, many of them had a lot of difficulties and collection from those areas was weak. So, the state decided that those who took loan from the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund should be given longer moratoriums, among other measures, including waiving of penalties and interest. Also, for our traditional debtors, I mean people with outstanding tax obligations, we had a plan for them. We also thought of allowing taxpayers to pay in instalments. For residents giving donations, both in cash and in kind, we came up with a palliative for them. Against the 2021 filing, we would give them a rebate of 20 per cent of their donations. But we capped it that it cannot be more than 35 per cent of the liability that is due; that way they are getting relief. Was there any relief for employees under PAYE? One way or the other, we believe that the palliatives would trickle down for the benefit of everyone. Lagos generates high IGR, but the taxpayers, especially those who live in places that have poor infrastructure, ask what the money is being used for. Do you think the government is giving enough back to the people paying the tax? On our part, our function is to generate revenue for the provision of infrastructure and social services. However, anybody who visits Lagos can see the impact of government across the state. You know that in any nation, people don’t like to pay tax, but they are encouraged to pay when they know where their tax is going. Lagos has been blessed with a lot of astute leaders and this modern tax system started from the time of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He made IGR a priority for the state by making the Board of Internal Revenue autonomous. Part of the tools we use is an enlightenment campaign; showcasing what the government is using the money for, covering housing, education, security, roads, bridges and others. But across the state, people see the impact of government every day, which shows Lagos has had very good leaders; from Asiwaju Tinubu to former Governor Babatunde Fashola, to former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and now Governor Sanwo-Olu. Lagos arguably has 24 million people and every day if you go to the motor parks you would see  people arriving in the state, so there is a serious pressure on infrastructure in Lagos and government has to bridge that gap. A lot of people still don’t understand the connection between paying tax and development. But like I said, the evidence is there for people to see and it will keep getting better. People always complain about multiple taxation, why do we still have this challenge? Multiple taxes relate to collecting the same type of tax twice, however people mix the whole thing up and some people refer to levies and administrative charges as tax. Multiple taxation is like when you have paid your PAYE accurately for the year and we come up with another demand notice over the same income. That is wrong. In the past, we had people who had six taxpayer identities because things were not done using biometrics. So, people moved from one tax office to another to get the least amount possible because we didn’t have a central database. The subsequent years, they would receive demand notice from those tax offices, which they would refer to as multiple taxation. But now our e-tax solution is based strictly on BVN. However, under the safe tax programme, we are working on the harmonisation of taxes by the state and the local governments and once we have the approval of the House of Assembly and we make the announcement, members of the public can challenge anybody who goes outside these stated charges, because part of the problem is ignorance. People should show more interest in knowing about taxation so that people do not levy them unnecessarily. Government has spoken extensively on boosting revenue by widening the tax net, how many registered taxpayers are in Lagos? That’s a difficult question, because like I just explained, we used to have multiple taxpayers’ ID, whereby one person can be registered in 10 different places, but e-tax offers us the opportunity of a clean data such that you can only register once. Now, we have about 4.5 million people on the present registration, but while we are trying to clean the data, which would eventually reduce that number, we are also widening our tax net and bringing in new people. A good tax authority must have a good database of taxpayers, but one nationwide problem we have is identity management. Some people trade in cash so you don’t even know how much they earn, and people who trade in cash have a high propensity to evade tax, so the government over the years has tried very hard to reduce the level of cash movement within the economy. It’s still an ongoing battle but the awareness of taxation is really growing. We are being very dynamic and strategic in thinking on how to increase the tax net. On the other hand, we actually do prosecute people for failure to file their returns, committing perjury and false declaration, but there are a lot of problems. Most Nigerians are guilty of not filing their returns, including people who earn salary. But the Pay As You Earn is already deducted from source. Filing your returns is different from your PAYE. Every month, your employer deducts PAYE from your salary and remits it on your behalf, but the law says between January and March 31 you need to complete your Form A, which is a declaration of your income, because you could have other earnings outside your salary. We are educating people extensively that when you are in paid employment, you are supposed to file under direct assessment but it’s just convenient for people not to do it. I can tell you that 80 per cent of people with economic activities fail to meet this obligation. But we are starting to enforce it. For instance, we have started to prosecute. We picked the first 5,000, spread across high net worth individuals and salary earners. So, it’s not enough to say your PAYE has been deducted from source. There are billionaires that are under PAYE. You see a billionaire who probably earns N500m in a year; he would put himself under the PAYE schedule and declare just about N6m. He will not complete the Form A or file his annual return, thereby evading, which is outright tax evasion. So, we are trying to correct people on these things. We are overhauling our system 100 per cent, like how we deal with high net worth individuals. Right now, we are building a central database to integrate with all the Ministries, Departments and Agencies involved in collecting revenue in Lagos so that centrally, we can see a lot of things. With that, when you buy land and register it with the land registry or you buy a car and register it with the Vehicle Inspection Services, we would see it from our end and we would be able to match your acquisitions with the income you declared. Lagos gets a huge IGR, to what extent does tax contribute to the infrastructural development and provision of social services in the state? It’s very high because on average, LIRS delivers about 80 per cent of IGR. In terms of what goes into infrastructure, we then have to look at the mix between capital and recurrent expenditure. In Lagos, given the commitment to developing infrastructure constantly, we look at 60 per cent capital and 40 per cent recurrent and those are the moving targets, more so under Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. In other words, we are providing 80 per cent of that 60 per cent, if you want to look at it in such context. In 2017, the then Finance Minister, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, said only 214 persons paid taxes above N20m and they were all in Lagos, how do the sectors fare comparatively in terms of remittances to the government? I can readily tell you that taxpayers in paid employment paid much better than those that are self-employed, but about those on the other side, we owe taxpayers a duty of care and we have a policy of confidentiality, so it will be unfair of me to disclose such. However, what we are doing is to generally go across all sectors and try to sensitise all the taxpayers to the need to improve their  compliance. In every sector, some are good and some are bad. But under direct assessment, where we have the billionaires and high net worth individuals, many of them have not imbibed the true spirit of paying their taxes. However, we will continue to advocate and let them know that they need to have a change of heart, while we are also strategising and deploying ways of catching them. When we do, we allow the law take its course, through payment of fines and penalties. The general advice is that every resident of the state should strive to pay their taxes because sooner or later, the arms of the law will catch up with them. From your experience, why are people reluctant to pay tax? People have different reasons for wanting to avoid the payment of taxes. In the past, there were all sorts of explanations, like people not seeing where the money was going, but that is not the case for Lagos because it is very evident where tax money goes. That is why you see ‘taxpayer money in action’ at some project sites. But, in some other states, we can categorise the reluctance to pay under trust deficit between the people and government and a lot of people use that as an excuse not to pay. If we want development, we have to imbibe the culture of paying taxes. What’s the biggest challenge facing your operations? Identity management and credible data. Getting good data is a big problem for all tax authorities. It’s an issue for us, but we are closing ranks seriously. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 