TOUTED as the ultimate remedy to cure the flaws of the Nigeria Police and bring succour to the torments of crime, the Western Nigerian Security Network is experiencing the inevitable teething troubles of a new system. But cruelly, the regional security initiative of the six South-West governors popularly referred to as ‘Operation Amotekun’, does not have the luxury to gather its wits as the upsurge in crime is threatening the peace of the region again. Realising that the security outfit is still in its infancy, just barking without biting, the invaders are fully back, robbing, kidnapping, shedding blood and destroying farms across the South-West. This places ‘Operation Amotekun’ in the spotlight; how will it discharge its duties? Undoubtedly, Nigeria’s social fabric has changed radically. Its centralised security architecture has also collapsed. In its latest report, Amnesty International noted that gunmen massacred at least 1,126 villagers in the six months to June 2020. AI said, “In addition to the security forces’ failure to heed warnings or respond in time to save lives, the fact that no perpetrators have been brought to justice leaves rural communities feeling completely exposed. The President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), claims he has repeatedly tasked security agencies to end the killing so that Nigerians can go to bed with their eyes closed, but clearly nothing has changed.” This is evidence of a broken system, which ensnares the South-West as well. But being a federal political system, this has imposed an urgent need on the willing regions in the country to establish the security structures to secure their domains as they deem fit. Therefore, after a series of bloody killings and kidnappings traced to Fulani killer-herdsmen and their local collaborators, the South-West governors heeded the popular call by creating ‘Operation Amotekun’ early in 2020. Unfortunately, the outfit is falling short of expectations. Some fresh incidents suffice: first was the ordeal of an agriculture entrepreneur, Modupeoluwa Oyetoso and her fiancé in Lanlate, Ibarapa Local Government Area of Oyo State in the hands of marauders. On their way back from the farm, the criminals shot her fiancé dead and abducted Oyetoso. They released her only after an undisclosed ransom exchanged hands. What a loss. According to Oyetoso, two others were abducted a few days after she was released. Two days before the Lanlate incident became public knowledge, suspected Fulani herders seized two people returning from a festival on the Ikun-Akoko highway. This is audacious; coming just five days after Governor Rotimi Akeredolu launched the Ondo State chapter of the security outfit. It negates the raison d’être for ‘Operation Amotekun’. In agony, Oyetoso explained, “The Ibadan branch of the Poultry Association of Nigeria reported that more than 10 of their members have been victims within the past five months. Our story needs to come out, because there is so much that is not said about kidnapping.” This is scary. ‘Operation Amotekun’ was mooted by the governors in 2019 shortly after a series of dastardly attacks in the South-West by suspected Fulani bandits, including the slaughter of Funke Olakunri, daughter of Afenifere leader, Reuben Fasoranti, last July, and became formalised on a spirited note early this year. But the resurgence of attacks casts a pall on it. As the COVID-19 pandemic exacted its toll and the governors dawdled, the criminal elements resorted to their old tricks. It ought not to be so. Farming communities and citizens in Ekiti, Osun, Oyo, Ogun, Lagos and Ondo states are all victims. Commerce and interstate travel are imperilled. June was terrible in Ondo. Suspected herdsmen kidnapped nine passengers in a commercial bus on lsua highway in Akoko, Ondo State. A brother to one of the victims told reporters that the captors demanded a N100 million ransom. A monarch, David Olajide, was targeted at Osi, close to the Akure Airport, by the rampaging herders. Two days earlier, the kidnappers seized a woman and her stepson at the dark spot. In Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, criminals abducted the twins of an Islamic preacher in April, among other crimes. In a broader sense, insecurity is prevalent nationwide. Nearly all rural communities in Nigeria today are insecure because the Nigeria Police Force and the other security agencies cater mainly to the VIPs in the affluent urban centres. The Global Terrorism Index noted in 2015 that the Fulani herdsmen were the fourth most dominant terror group in the world. Along with the Boko Haram jihadists, the armed Fulani herdsmen accounted for 63 per cent of terror attacks and 88 per cent of terror-related deaths in Nigeria in 2017. “In 2018, Fulani extremists were responsible for the majority of terror-related deaths in Nigeria at 1,158 fatalities. Terror-related deaths and incidents attributed to Fulani extremists increased by 261 and 308 percent respectively from the prior year,” GTI said. Having fanned out to the South-West for more conquests, it behoves the governors to constantly review and reorganise their security outfits to repel the invaders. This is a dangerous group and should be seen as such. For it to succeed in this onerous mission, ‘Operation Amotekun’ should therefore concentrate on the hinterland, which is not currently enjoying the presence of the federal security agencies. Using the locals, intelligence gathering should be primary in its mode of operations. As this newspaper has noted, the herdsmen are already deeply embedded in South-West communities. If the ‘Amotekun’ corps concentrates on the urban centres, it will end up like the ineffective, corrupt and politicised federal police. The governors should guard against this, build the technological capacity of the corps and implement an integrated strategy to flush out the murderous herders from the region. Additionally, the corps, being a state actor, should be adequately equipped and well armed to stem the menace of kidnapping and killings on the highways. Operation Amotekun should comprise separate but interlinked units that will effectively secure the highways and flush out the renegades from the South-West forests. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 