Okechukwu Nnodim The Federation Account of Nigeria is overstressed, the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission has declared. RMAFC’s declaration on Monday was based on the demands made on the Federation Account by the federal, state and local  governments. The commission’s chairman, Elias Mbam, said it was high time the country started reducing the stress on the account, as he called on state governments to develop strategies to boost their internal revenues. Mbam disclosed this in his office in Abuja while receiving an Annual States Viability Index report from the Editor-in-Chief of the Economic Confidential, Yushau Shuaib. Mbam said, “The Federation Account allocation is overstressed by the over-dependence of the tiers of government and hence the need for state governments to develop strategies to boost their internal revenues.” On the states viability index report, the RMAFC boss stated that the ASVI provided a good source of information to the public. He said the report would drive the RMAFC on its mandate to encourage states of the federation to improve their Internally Generated Revenue. “I have come to realise that Economic Confidential has become a household name and its reports that are factual and authoritative should be useful, especially in guiding states whose revenues keep dwindling so that they can improve,” Mbam stated. Explaining some of the details in the report, Shuaib said the ASVI assessed and ranked states by their annual IGR in comparison to their receipts from the Federation Account allocation. He said the report showed that without the monthly disbursement from the Federation Account, many states would not survive. According to him, indices in the ASVI showed that at least five states were insolvent due to very poor IGRs that were far below 10 per cent of their receipts from the Federation Account. The states with the worst IGR performance in 2019, thus rendering them insolvent, according to the report, were Katsina, Kebbi, Borno, Bayelsa and Taraba, as they had extremely poor IGR. Shuaib stated that aside from Lagos and Ogun that ranked high in revenue generation in 2019, more states recorded encouraging IGR in 2019 compared to 2018. The report showed that Rivers, Kaduna, Enugu, Kwara and Zamfara did well with regards to revenue generation in 2019 compared to their IGR in the previous year, as they recorded more than 10 per cent improvements. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  