Dayo Ojerinde, Deji Lambo and Grace Edema Churches in Lagos State, on Sunday, held services after over four months’ ban on religious gatherings due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had last week ordered the reopening of worship centres in the state from Friday, August 7, 2020. Mosques in the state held Jumat services on Friday, while churches had their services on Sunday. At some of the churches visited by our correspondents, it was observed that children and the elderly were absent in accordance with the directive of the state government. It was also observed that worshippers maintained physical distancing, wore face masks and washed their hands before entering the churches. At the Emmanuel Baptist Church, Abule Egba, there was provision for hand-washing at the entrance of the church. Worshipers were also seen with their face masks. At the Christ Faith Tabernacle International Church, Ogba, the service was held for one hour and half hours. The church also obeyed the COVID-19 guidelines. At the CAC Palace of Light and Salvation, Egbeda, a member said the church reduced its services to two. “Before COVID-19, we used to have three services, but we now hold two services,” she said. READ ALSO: Buhari trades Nigeria’s sovereignty for Chinese yen In the Yaba area of the state, members of the Lagos Presbyterian Church were seen with face masks and washing their hands as they entered the church to worship. The church minister, Rev. Chinedu Okoroafor, said, “The management has put every measure in place to comply with the guidelines to curb the spread of the virus in churches.” At the St. Peter and Paul’s Catholic Church, Ejigbo, worshippers’ temperature was checked at the gate, while the use of face masks was enforced. The ‘no mask, no entrance’ rule was also enforced at the Assemblies of God Church, Jakande Estate, Isolo, while two services were held to maintain the social distancing order. A member of the church told one of our correspondents that a WhatsApp message was sent to members to ensure that the children and the elderly stayed at home. Members of the Living Faith Church, aka Winners Chapel, Ikorodu, were seen washing their hands and making use of hand sanitizer on the church premises, where three services were held. An usher in the church, Dele Goriola, said, “We have a team of compliance men to ensure that members comply with the measures put in place.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 