Ifeoluwa Oyerinde An Abuja-based businessman, Damilola Adenuga, has accused some cops attached to the Kubwa Police Station, Abuja, of allegedly assaulting and extorting him. PUNCH Metro learnt that Adenuga was on his way to a pharmacy to get a drug on Friday, August 7, 2020, when he was accosted around 7pm by two policemen in mufti. Adenuga, who said he initially thought that the cops were kidnappers, stated that when he attempted to raise the alarm, one of them showed him his identity card, while another snatched his phone from him and pushed him into their waiting van. The victim told our correspondent that the cops labelled him an Internet fraudster and threatened to kill him if he was not willing to part with money. He stated, “I was going to the pharmacy to buy malaria drugs when some men approached me and started harassing me. I was afraid because I thought they were going to kidnap me. I tried to raise the alarm, but one of them told me to keep quiet and pulled out his ID card. “I was still trying to explain to them that I was only going to buy drugs when the other policeman dipped his hand in my pocket and brought out my phone, labelled me a fraudster and cultist, and pushed me into their van. “I was taken to a nearby bush, where they threatened to kill me and leave my corpse there if I didn’t pay them. It got to a point where the policemen started asking themselves if they should kill me or not, but they eventually pulled me into the van again and drove round the area looking for other victims. “The cops drove to a pub and left me inside the vehicle. I begged one of them to remove the handcuffs on my hands, because I was not feeling well, but the officer ignored me. I had to put my hands out of the window of the vehicle to draw the attention of passers-by and one of the waitresses at the pub saw me and proceeded to ask the cops why they apprehended me, but they told her that I didn’t do anything but they could not release me until their boss gave them the go ahead.” Adenuga said when the policemen were done at the pub, they asked him for N1m before he could be released, adding that when he said he could not raise the money, he was taken to the Kubwa Police Station. He added, “I told them that I could only afford N20,000 but they refused; so, I increased the amount to N50,000, which was also rejected. One of the cops told me that I was not ready to go home and that he would make sure I slept in the cell with other suspects, who would beat and kill me overnight. “After much argument, the cops reduced their demand to N500,000, but I told them that I could not raise the amount, but I could only afford N100,000. They asked me to give them cash, but I told them that I didn’t have the money with me. “I told them I would transfer the money but they didn’t want me to transfer it at first, but they later agreed and gave me a woman’s account number to send the money to. They kept calling the woman and drove me around to make sure that the money had been sent and when the woman received it, they took me back to where I was picked around 10.30pm.” When PUNCH Metro contacted the Police Public Relations Officer, Federal Capital Territory Command, AnjuguriManzah, said he was not aware of the incident and urged the victim to call him so that investigation could be carried out. “I am not aware that such a thing happened; I am just hearing it from you for the first time. Please, encourage the innocent victim to give me a call so that we can begin investigation from there,” Manzah stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 