Deji Lambo Members of the Ifetedo and Wadire Community Development Associations are at loggerheads with the Chairman, Ejigbo Local Council Development Area, Lagos State, Mosuru-Obe Bello, and his executive over an alleged plan to build a cemetery on six plots of land in a residential part of the community. PUNCH Metro gathered that after the residents got wind of the plan, a petition was addressed to Bello to look for a new location for the cemetery, but he allegedly ignored them and efforts to engage him in dialogue on the matter reportedly proved abortive. In a bid to make their voices heard, it was learnt that the residents petitioned the Lagos State Ministry of Health and the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, among other concerned agencies, and officials were despatched to seal off the proposed site for the cemetery last month pending the outcome of an investigation into the matter. The Chairman, Ifetedo CDA, Olufemi Falese, said despite LASEPA issuing a stop-work order on the project, Bello was still bent on actualising it without considering the environmental implication of the proposed cemetery on the residents. Falese stated, “It was LASEPA that sealed off the place in July before the protest we held recently. The community petitioned LASEPA, the Lagos State Government, the Ministry of Health and others. We also wrote to the chairman asking for dialogue, but he did not respond. “Our lawyer wrote him on July 8, 2020, but he didn’t reply until a day to the protest and the tone of the letter shows that he might mobilise to the site any moment since he claimed that there was no law that prohibited him from carrying out the project. “The chairman wrote our lawyer explaining that he had not contravened any law and he saw no reason for us not allowing him to do his job, because it was his statutory duty to provide cemetery in the local government and that there was no law that could stop him from doing that. “We have informed the Oba of Ejigbo about the matter and he requested that we approach the chairman for dialogue, but he refused to respond to our request. The residents are not in support of the project, the Oba of Ejigbo is not in support of it, because the location of the project is at the heart of the town, where people are living.” The Chairman, Wadire CDA, Oludare Agboola, however, said when indications emerged that the LCDA boss was bent on continuing with the project, a protest was staged to draw the attention of the concerned authorities to their plight. Agboola stated, “We don’t want the cemetery to be located there; the chairman can use the place for any other project other than the cemetery, because it is a built-up area. We have written to the chairman several times and he has not responded to our call. We staged a protest recently because there are other places to build a cemetery. “How can the LCDA buy six plots of land in a residential area and want to them it to build a cemetery? On that same Morningstar Street, where the land is located, at Powerline bus stop, in Ejigbo LCDA, Lagos, there is an uncompleted primary health care centre and primary school there. Most importantly, a lot of residential buildings are located there.” When contacted, Bello said, “The council wanted to establish a cemetery and the landed property concerned has been purchased by the council and we have rights in line with the constitution to establish a cemetery. So, we have applied to the state government and also carried the community along through the CDC body. “If the CDAs said we have not carried them along, their right is to go to the CDC network. If they are looking for an audience, they should have done that before writing a petition against this government. They have petitioned the Lagos State Government and the matter is under investigation; so, let us leave the state government to come up with its decision. “They also wrote a petition to LASEPA complaining of health-related issues arising from that project. The petition written by their lawyer emphasized two major reasons, the economic well-being of the community and the health hazard that the project will bring to the community. “LASEPA is handling the aspect of the health implication of the project; it has the right to seal off the place to carry out an investigation. We are waiting for the result of LASEPA’s findings, which the council will abide by. As for the economic impact of the project, it is the duty of the government to go there to improve on other infrastructural facilities in the community. “According to Yoruba superstitious belief, a cemetery should be located on the outskirts of the community; I am a native of Ejigbo and you can go round the whole area, what part of Ejigbo will you call an outskirt other than that place?” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 