There are countless things wrong with governance in Nigeria and many Nigerians would relate with this quite easily. Notably, however, one of the factors bedevilling governance in the country is the huge cost incurred in running the government. This challenge, according to a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Muhammad Sanusi, might lead Nigeria into bankruptcy someday. The negative impact of this high cost is known and felt by most Nigerians who bear the brunt daily. It is worthy of note that the trillions of naira Nigeria makes from oil annually, independent of other earnings like taxes, have yet to translate into desirable development because most of the country’s funds go into recurrent expenditure, like payment of wages, salaries, purchase of vehicles and allowances for overseas travels, accommodation, medical expenses, among many others as evidenced in yearly budgets. For example, in the revised 2020 budget of the Federal Government, out of the N10.8tn budgeted, the highest allocation of N4.9tn went to recurrent expenditure, while capital expenditure was N2.4tn and N2.9tn went to debt servicing. In 2019, out of the N8.91tn signed into law by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), recurrent expenditure got N4.05tn while capital expenditure got N2.09tn. This has been the practice over the years, and in addition, the country’s debt profile keeps mounting by the day. Some of the states with bloated governments have run cap in hand to the Federal Government for bailouts, while the Federal Government itself that has tens of duplicitous agencies keeps borrowing. At the moment, the country’s debt burden stands at about N25tn, which could have been lower if the size of government was leaner. Notably, the President, Vice-President, Senate President, Speaker, House of Representatives, governors, lawmakers at all levels, local government chairmen and people in positions of authority across the country are believed to be aware of the damning impact of the huge cost of governance and how it impedes the country’s growth and development. But happenings have shown that instead of taking decisive steps at their respective levels to address the conundrum and ensure that funds needed to address infrastructure deficit and provide social services are freed up from allowances, they only highlight the problem, and sometimes give excuses as to why it is difficult to correct the anomaly. Then they move on, leaving the problem to fester with no one in particular to take responsibility for the inaction. Noting the problem, a legal practitioner and human rights activist, Mr Jiti Ogunye, said “the need to cut down the crushing and prohibitive cost of governance in Nigeria has been on the national agenda for years”. “Successive governments, including the present one, have been paying lip service to it. They talk about it but don’t do anything about it,” he added. For example, the President said in October 2019 when he received the members of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, led by its Chairman, Prof Itse Sagay, that he would look into the cost of governance. He also reduced travels and estacode for ministers among other measures to cut the cost of governance. But two months earlier when he named his cabinet members, the President created five new ministries and appointed ministers for each of them. Even though the constitution says each of the 36 states must have a minister, there are currently 44 ministers, thereby increasing the cost of governance, in terms of salaries and allowances for them and their personal aides, among other overhead costs. Thankfully, during his Democracy Day speech on June 12, 2020, the President said, “In the face of dwindling resources and rising cost of governance, I have authorised the White Paper on the rationalisation of government parastatals and agencies to be reviewed for implementation.” Also, the Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, said at a webinar hosted by the Emmanuel Chapel on June 19, 2020 that there was no doubt that the cost of governance in Nigeria was too large and expensive. While proffering solutions to the problem, the vice-president said there was a need for a national debate to address the issue. He also put some responsibilities on the National Assembly, noting that it would no doubt be a tough task because the lawmakers who would vote to make it happen are part of the system. He said, “I think there is a need for a national debate on this question and there is a need for us to ensure that we are not wasting the kind of resources that we ought to use for development on overheads.” This again shows that the political leaders are well aware of the problem. Thankfully, the President and the majority of the National Assembly members belong to the same party, but till date, nothing has been heard of the national debate the VP proposed. In a similar fashion, the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, have on different occasions lamented the cost of governance in the country. For instance, prior to his comment on the cost of governance about a week ago, Gbajabiamila said in May at a webinar, organised by E-Chapel, that he would be happy to see public servants slash travels and vehicle expenses. When asked by the anchor, who is the founder and CEO of Terrakulture, Mrs Bolanle Austen-Peters, if legislators would be willing to take a cut in their salaries and allowances, the Speaker said, “For me, I think we are looking the wrong way if we are talking about cutting salaries and allowances. “If you do the maths, our budget is a fraction of the budget of Nigeria. But, if you look at the perks, the air travels, vehicles, the vacations, hotel (bills), and tickets, if you put all those things together, they make up way more than you get from the salaries of public office holders. That’s the real meat. “I’ll be more than happy for us to take a cut in that regard. Let’s cut down the cost, and not just legislators, who are just a small number of public office holders. But I think it’s important that legislators take such bold steps in the times we are in and a lot of the spread will begin to streamline.” Just a week ago, the Speaker said at the commencement of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper that the prevailing situation in the country demanded that the cost of governance should be reduced. He added, “We recognise that we cannot accomplish these objectives using loans and outside financing alone. Therefore, we need to impose deep cuts in the cost of governance and improve internal revenue generation and collection so that we can free up resources that can then be deployed to fund policy initiatives that will enhance the lives of our people.” Among many other prominent persons that have spoken about the need to cut the cost of governance is former President Olusegun Obasanjo. In 2016, he said there was a need for governors to reduce waste by merging institutions, especially given the economic situation in the country. But, according to analysts, it’s time to leave the rhetoric and get to work, if at all they intend to do anything on the festering menace, because, according to them, the ubiquitous cost of governance is not sustainable. To a former member of the House of Representatives, Mr Ehiogie West-Idahosa, Nigeria does not have the money to sustain the kind of bloated government it runs, especially in the executive and legislative arms. He explained that Nigeria did not need a bicameral legislature, noting that a lot of money goes into paying the numerous legislative aides, funding the many committees that also have their staff, among other overheads. For the executive arm, he said the hordes of aides, long convoys and other overheads like unnecessary agencies and duplicitous outfits are things that should be looked into. He therefore suggested that instead of buck-passing, each arm of government should cut its cost of governance and that a joint committee should be constituted by the President to collectively look at how to reduce cost. West-Idahosa, a legal practitioner, said, “Sincerely, let each arm of government cut cost from its own end and after that, we can have a joint committee to further look into the size of government. “I’m asking for a harmonised review committee, made up of members of the three arms of government, and preferably headed by a serving judge in the Appellate court to look at these things and agree on how to downsize to show the reality of the Nigerian situation. We are not as rich as we pretend to be. Why are we running a bicameral legislature, for instance?” When asked if the members of the National Assembly, especially the lower chamber, would agree to an arrangement that would scrap their chamber, he said a robust political negotiation could make it happen. He added, “It can happen if there is a political negotiation by a committed President and Buhari is one of those who could do it. (Former President Olusegun) Obasanjo was another person that could have done it but he missed his chance. “A President in his first-term can’t do it so as not to step on toes and lose out of a second term, but Buhari can do it before he leaves; he is not seeking re-election. This kind of far-reaching reform can only be carried out by a President who has nothing at stake anymore other than national interest.” He said the President’s persona would also work for him if he makes such a move. He added, “If you look at Buhari, let’s be honest, the only allegation people have against him is that he is too inclined to one ethnic group, you can hardly hear anybody say he’s meeting with anybody to loot the country. So, you cannot accuse him of certain things that are very common with the political class. “Therefore, if Buhari really wants his name written in gold, he should bring out the Oronsaye Report and instead of looking at it alone, he should involve the National Assembly and the judiciary. He should set up a review committee, made up of all these arms, and make it clear that this is for Nigerians.” Also speaking, Ogunye said it was obvious that Nigerians were panting under the heavy yoke of the cost of governance vis-a-vis what is left for the development of the country, noting that until they take concrete steps, it will remain mere talk. “Therefore, beyond the literary lectures and rhetoric and very infuriating political correctness exhibited by our public office holders, this matter ought to be treated more or less like an emergency because Nigeria will not survive this cost of governance,” he added. He said while it is easy to say the borrowings from different sources are strictly for capital expenditure, if the leaders do not consume everything the country makes, there could have been money for capital expenditure instead of the borrowing spree. While proffering solutions that would end the buck-passing, he said it’s a national agenda and the Federal Government should take the lead. He added, “The FG should come up with a well thought-out executive bill to address the problem. The bill, I propose, should contain provisions that would structurally and operationally address this problem. “The structural aspect has to do with the size of government. The Steve Oransaye committee report talked about multiplicity of agencies at the federal level and the government said it accepted the recommendations in part. We have not seen anything that has been done. Instead, this government, after winning an election, decided to create more ministries. That doesn’t suggest that the government is serious, so we must stop the pretence. “We need constitutional amendment to cut down the size of the legislature at levels, in terms of numerical size. Nigeria is like the size of California in the United States, but California has two senators, while Nigeria has 109 senators. Why do we need that number? At this rate, there should be provision for us to merge states. “That same bill will talk about the operational aspect; what should the remuneration of public office holders be; what should be the allowances; why should we leave the National Assembly to be escalating budgetary allocations. Why should we have security votes for governors?” He advised that once the bill is laid, it should be publicised for citizen participation, because if it is done secretly, the National Assembly might not take it seriously. “People have to buy in and overwhelm them (the legislators). If I see the executive arm of government at the national level doing that, I would then know they are serious, but until then, they are just playing games.” Ogunye also stressed that in the final analysis, there is no escape from restructuring, adding, “there is no way you can cut the cost of governance without restructuring. That is the fundamental way. Instead of 109 senators, we could have 37 and for the House of Reps, we could have between three and four per state.” He pointed out that there used to be a time when men proudly had two to three wives with 14 to 15 children, but that with common sense, people now have between two and four. “And don’t forget that there was no legislation,” he added. “We have practised a leaner government before and we saw the benefits, so we keep saying that Nigeria will not survive without restructuring.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 