Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, has said a former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, should be made a rallying point for the Yoruba race. Akanbi, who called on Yoruba people to support Tinubu, said the national leader of the All Progressives Congress has the attributes of the late Premier of Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo. The royal father said this while receiving the Special Adviser to Osun State Governor on Civic Engagement, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, who paid him a visit at his palace in Iwo. Oyintiloye in a statement he signed on Sunday quoted Akanbi as saying, “Tinubu should be made the image of the Yoruba nation who shall be speaking on our behalf because he’s a symbolic living legend. “Because of his sterling qualities which he has exhibited over time, he could be likened to our late foremost leader, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, whose charismatic personality and progressive leadership have immensely contributed to the plenary development of the Yoruba nation. “It’s time Yoruba rallied support round Tinubu and not crucify him like Awolowo who was made to suffer despite his sacrifices and the developmental monuments such as the establishment of the University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University, the Cocoa House, Western Nigerian Television, the first television service in Africa and free education policy, among others, which were recorded under his leadership.” The monarch urged Yoruba people to acknowledge Tinubu’s contributions to the development of the nation in his lifetime. He also commended the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for “its achievements in every sector of the nation’s economy,” while calling for support for Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 