Umar Muhammed, Lafia Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, said on Friday that the state was battling its own Islamic sects, Darul-Salam and Hakika, which he said had posed a security threat to the state. He pointed out that the state had had its own share of the insecurity in the country, saying the state was equally battling clashes between farmers and herders, kidnapping, rape and inter-ethnic clashes. The governor spoke at the inauguration of the newly established Police Mobile Force Training College in Ende Hills by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). He noted that the training facility would enhance the capacity of the police in training its special forces to deal with insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and other emerging crimes in the state. He said, “I have been battling with the activities of the Islamic sect ‘Darul-Salam and Hakika’ in Toto and Awe local government areas of the state. More worrisome is the kidnapping activities which has pervaded the rural areas and resulted in the killing of the traditional ruler of Odu community in Nasarawa Local Government Area. “Let me take the liberty of this occasion to state that Nasarawa State has its own share of security challenges, which are mainly conflicts between herdsmen and farmers, kidnapping, rape as well as communal clashes between ethnic groups.” While thanking the President and the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, for the sighting of the college in the state, Sule said the state would continue to provide the necessary logistics to support Federal Government’s efforts in the fight against crime in the state. Meanwhile, the President has promised to boost internal security by establishing training facilities in other geopolitical zones of the country as he commended the IGP and his team for their commitment to improving the police. Buhari, represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Mr Muhammad Dingyadi, said, “I will boost internal security and establish training facilities in other geo-political zone of the country targeted at tackling the persistence of banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery across the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com