The phone rang insistently and it was getting on the nerves which was because despite the admonition that the mobile advertised on this column says explicitly that the messages should be by short text messages only, people still call. These calls were received at about 9pm at about the time most people return home from work and wish only to enjoy a nice bath and have their dinner before going to bed. By the time the call was answered, the caller had made 11 attempts. The voice at the other end sounded agitated. It was also incoherent and the meat of the teary story was that she feared that she was losing her mind because over the previous five weeks or so, she observed a certain tendency to speak needlessly and at great speed whenever she was hungry. She was insistent that something was wrong with her because in the week following her sudden changes, she was also privy to the fact that as many as four people she knew had passed away from COVID-19-related illness in different parts of the country. There was an inclination to blame the new problem on the sad news of the deaths she was aware of. However, further interrogation done with much patience convinced her that it might have started earlier but that perhaps the bad news she got somewhat depressed her appetite to the point that she no motivation to eat. In that connection, this new problem arose perhaps from a state of prolonged starvation or fasting if you like. There is indeed a certain circumstance when people get grumpy and even angry when they are overdue to feed. Among younger women, this situation can lead to much unnecessary talking. It was this second aspect of the changes she observed that frightened our caller. She is only 28 years old, not yet married, living with her parents and working in an insurance firm. She was very concerned. A new term was coined by scientists in recognition of just such a situation in people and they referred to it as Hangry, a situation in which the brain becomes so deprived of certain nutrients that it causes its owner to behave in an unusual manner. The cause is a cascade of events beginning from a reduction in the blood sugar beginning some hours after the last meal has been taken. Energy is provided when the carbohydrates, proteins and fats which we eat are broken down into simple sugars, mainly glucose, for the body to use as fuel. When the levels of the processed sugars drop below a certain level the brain can perceive that situation as a life-threatening one and respond accordingly. And while the other organs of the body and the tissues can utilise other food components as fuel, the brain is solely dependent on glucose. A fall in glucose levels makes it difficult to concentrate. Simple mistakes are made and simple tasks become difficult. Another situation that might develop is that there is loss of social control such that a previously calm person now begins to snap at people with whom he or she used to be quite comfortable. Often, these people tend to be friends and partners and a shouting match or increased talkativeness can begin. However, at a certain threshold, the brain sends out urgent messages to various organs with the marching orders to produce more hormones that would act to increase the amount of glucose circulating in the blood. There are four major hormones responsible for this action for which they are called counter-regulatory hormones and they are as follows; These four hormones act together to ensure an adequate glucose balance in the body and are the messengers responsible for helping the body to respond the ways in which it does to different types of stress. One of those responses is the abnormal speed of speaking that the female caller talked about and the rambling talk she found herself doing more and more often. It is the combination of the absence of food, jitteriness and low blood sugar level causing her to so behave that are collectively defined as hanger. Furthermore, hunger and anger tend to be controlled by the same pool of genes. The product of one of such gene is called neuropeptide Y, which is a natural brain chemical that is released when someone is hungry. It stimulates the feeding behaviour in people and therefore controls the sensation of hunger by acting on particular brain cells. Neuropeptide Y and the Y1 receptor which it stimulates regulate hunger and aggression. As a result of this connection and the association with the four hormones mentioned above, it will be appreciated how several different pathways exist and act together at the same time to create some of the effects we have seen above. In the end, the cultural tendency of the person who is starving or hungry is what determines if the pattern of expressed aggression will be physical, verbal or attitudinal. It will also influence whether any acts expressed thereby will be direct or indirect. Those cultural attributes are developed early in life because as must now become clear to all readers, this sort of temper tantrum and abnormal talking occurs even in babies and goes right through childhood into adulthood before some are able to repress the urge to lash out at others. Babies and children would normally cry, sometimes chillingly, when they are hungry and food is not immediately forthcoming. It goes to show that these effects are not under our conscious control so that an expression of anger or unusual talkativeness cannot be classified as a disease. Food may not always be readily available when needed such as during a long road trip or a religious obligation like the Ramadan fast, but hunger often stimulates the hormones we mentioned above to try and maintain a balance. When that gap is not met quickly, jitteriness, lots of talking and even anger can become the result. Questions and answers Dear doctor, I want to know how to gain weight safely. I am really slim and do not usually have the appetite to eat.  0807xxxxxxx There are important foods that are useful in the quest to weight gain. The most ubiquitous of all of them is milk and its associated products of cheese and butter. By extension, this will include eggs. These food substances are generally referred to as dairy products or simply dairy and are known to contain important food supplements such as healthy fat, carbohydrates, proteins, minerals and calcium. The protein content of milk, for example, makes it an excellent choice for all those people who desire to build their muscle up. One important study found that after a resistance training workout among a particular group of people, the consumption of slim milk, which is low fat milk, helped more to build up muscle than soya-based milk did. A similar study involving women alone showed that those who took milk following a workout showed much better results than women who took soyamilk after their exercises. As a result, it is safe to conclude that anyone looking to gain weight can add milk to their diet throughout the day and as often as possible. Dear doctor, I read your column in Sunday PUNCH of July 19, 2020. I will be grateful if you can direct me on how to get your article on migraine, perhaps online. Thank you for the good job. 0806xxxxxxx Well, the article you are talking about was published only a week before your question and so it appeared on the 12/07/2020. If you access Sunday PUNCH on your browser and click on “ask the doctor”, you can just type migraine in the box displayed and you will get the article downloaded unto your device. The other way to get it is to look specifically for the Sunday PUNCH of the July 12, 2020 and see what you are searching for. Dear doctor, I saw your number in Sunday PUNCH. I am 23 years old and I need your advice. I am an HbSS patient who has not frequently had crisis since I was a teenager. But two years ago, I started to have severe pains under my right breast and the episodes are frequent, like twice a month. My doctor asked me to do a scan and several stones were found in my gallbladder and he gave me pain killers and antibiotics. He has done this over and over now for the past two years. Recently, I was reading online about gallstones and I learnt that they can be removed. My doctor has not told me anything about that yet but what is your advice? Thank you.  0807xxxxxxx If there are multiple stones and they cause you severe and frequent pain, the best thing is to have you referred to a surgeon or get a surgeon who will review your case at his hospital and just plan to have it removed. The operation is fairly common and should then resolve these problems that you currently suffer from. Dear doctor, I trust you are fine. I eat dates five times a week and so, yesterday, I forgot my empty plate after I had cleared it of its contents and then sometime later, this morning to be precise, I saw ants on the plate and I screamed sugar! What do you think doctor? And what is the frequency of eating dates vis–a-vis being able to cause diabetes?  xxx@xxx Indeed, date palms are some of the most nutritious nuts available today weight for weight. They do contain simple sugars which is why ants were attracted to their residue in the plate you left behind. Their liability to cause a rise in blood sugar is not enormous and it is the quantity taken per unit time rather than the frequency of taking them that are important in determining whether it will make diabetes worse or not. I would recommend that if you have diabetes, you could take one or two nuts a day as long as your blood sugar is well controlled, but between five and 10 nuts daily if you are not a diabetic. Dear doctor, I have a 2-year-old daughter who usually passes stool once a day but has been doing so three times a day now for the past few days. The stool is not watery and the baby plays. Also she feeds well. What do you advice me to do? I am quite worried about this new development. Thank you. 0813xxxxxxx Well, I do not see a problem with the new pattern of passing stools or with the stool itself. To defecate three times a day is considered normal and to do so once a day or once in three days is equally acceptable. It does not matter in terms of the definition whether the stools are well formed or loose or watery; at a rate of more than three times a day, it would be considered as diarrhoea. And so, occasionally, you will see issues like these occurring all through the lifetime of an individual and it does not always mean that there is a disease condition. I would caution you to observe keenly as this episode is likely to resolve by itself after a few days. No medications may be necessary but if you remain concerned, you could administer some oral rehydration solution mainly to satisfy you and to allay your fears. Dear doctor, my son is nine months old now. He was given the measles vaccine about two weeks ago and he was fine. However, I observed after a few days that he was unusually warm around the head even though his temperature as I checked it was consistently normal. He plays actively but does not eat like he used to do and he developed a swelling behind the right ear. Now, the swelling seems to be coming down, has never been painful and does not seem to bother him in any way. What do you think is the problem here? I don’t understand what is wrong sir.  0802xxxxxxx I do not believe there is much of a problem here. When people get an immunisation, what the agent does is to try to give the person receiving the vaccine a mild form of the actual illness. This helps to stimulate the immune system to respond in an effort to contain it. The body also develops certain groups of cells that retain a memory of how these agents are composed so that when next there is an exposure to any similar organism, those cells are activated to stop them from causing a disease. A part of the components of this form of defence is the system of lymph nodes that exist in groups around the body. You have them in the groin, the armpit, under the chin, at the back of the neck and behind the ears. There are other groups within the body that you cannot see. I am certain that what you saw is a part of this response. And as it is not a disease by itself, it has begun to reduce in size in accordance with a diminishing threat. Dear doctor. I am 30 years of age and a mother of one. Please, I have been noticing that anytime I want to urinate, that there is a whitish discharge in my pant. This has been going on now for two weeks and I am hoping that there is nothing wrong. I need your advice please. 0815xxxxxxxx As long as the only unusual thing you have noticed is the whitish discharge and there is no smell associated with it or itching and the discharge is not unusually voluminous, it is probably normal. If any of those other descriptions are associated with it, then you will need to see a doctor for examination and possible treatment. However, it is a prudent thing for you to just observe and look out for these other aspects described above over the next two to four weeks before taking any further action. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 