How have you been coping since the outbreak of COVID19? It’s not easy creating a new normal, it’s frustrating when you see your friends, family but can’t even hug them just because of COVID; it has made everyone a threat to each other. I miss traditions, I miss hanging out with friends, shaking hands, I miss everything before COVID-19. Sporting activities are gradually returning to normalcy, though without fans. Do you think it’s the right time for athletes to start competing? Federations are making sure everyone is safe; for me, I don’t see anything wrong with sports resuming, as long as there are precautions that need to be taken seriously, then it’s good. You emerged a top performer for Nigeria with 13 points, seven rebounds, and two assists, as D’Tigeress claimed a third African title in 2017, beating Senegal 65-48 in Bamako. How would you describe that feat? There’s no feeling that can replace the feeling I had that day: making the National team for the first time, winning the Afrobasket and making history and to crown it all, I was one of the best five; trust me that feeling will never leave me and I’m thankful to God for that. You were also in amazing form, helping your side beat the Senegalese, this time in their own backyard, to emerge African champions again. Can you recount the buildup to the final, intimidation, antics, and other means applied by the hosts in Dakar? How did D’Tigress overcome this? For one, I give the full respect to the fans who support their basketball team, it’s not easy leaving your house far and near just to come cheer a team on. It’s a normal thing for fans to try to put fear in the minds of their opponents, that’s some tactics, but as a team, we handled it pretty well, which led to a good outcome. Reaching the quarter-finals at the 2018 World Cup in Spain was no mean feat; the first African side to achieve that. How did the girls feel losing by a 30-point margin to the US at that stage? Nobody likes losing but we held our shoulders up high knowing that we left a statement and our mark out there. In Spain, D’Tigeress also became the first African female team to win three consecutive matches at a FIBA Championship, will this stay with you for a long time to come? I’m glad we won games but we hope to do better at the next World Cup. Yes, it’s a great feeling making history, but we need to keep our eyes more on the prize and not get distracted. According to a report, a basketball fan in Ebonyi State, Judith Nwolisa, named her new baby girl, Evelyn, in your honor after your amazing performance at the women’s Afrobasket in 2017. Are you aware of this? Yes I am, and I’ve been trying to get a hold of that lady but to no avail. If I can get any useful information to meet her, I’d appreciate it. What was the experience like playing in the WNBA? It wasn’t a fun experience for me but I’ve gone passed it, we move. How would you describe your current club career in France? I’d say I’m striving, the goal is to get to the top and I believe with this team, it’s a step forward to my goal. What’s your view on basketball in Africa? Is it at the level you expect it to be? Basketball is still growing in Africa but honestly I’m concerned about Nigeria. I see a lot of talents, but the help they need isn’t there and I’m hoping I can be able to help change the game someday. There’s been a faction in the NBBF leadership back home. Has this affected D’Tigeress in any way? I’m just a player, I get called to play and I show up; that’s all I care about and focus on. Growing up, female kids from this part of the world aren’t encouraged to indulge in sports. Was it the same scenario with you? I wasn’t supported by my dad and older sister at first, he wanted me to focus more on school; few of the challenges I faced was finances and not getting the gears I needed to improve my game but I’m glad they all support now and are proud of me. What is your routine like before and after each game? Technically, I don’t have a routine aside making sure I pray before every game. The days I don’t pray, it’s always difficult for me. I pray, listen to some motivational messages and music, depending on my mood. For post-game, I just eat and chat with fans if it’s necessary, and then I go to sleep because of practice the next day. Can you tell us about the craziest things you’ve done on the court? I’m not really crazy on the court though, but I’d say hitting someone on the court during a game without the refs knowing, they only saw her holding the side of her ribs. Who is your most exciting teammate in the national team? Everyone, we all have moments we give energy to the team, so I’d say, everybody. You lost your mum a few years ago. How were you able to get over it? I’m not over it, I still struggle with her not being around, but I try to be strong for her and knowing that she’s always with me. I just have it at the back of my mind to make her proud, that’s how I pull through. My recently inaugurated charity organisation “Benny A Foundation” is in honour of her, and I hope I can help effect the changes that are needed to curb road accidents among other things my foundation plans to achieve. If you were not a basketballer, what would you have been? A nurse; I’ve always wanted to go into the medical field and I’m still hoping to go into it after I retire, hopefully. Racism has taken centre stage in recent times. For someone living abroad, have you been a victim? People have made racial comments at me in the States and I thought I could handle racism if I kept ignoring it until I went to Russia. I was faced in front of some group of people on a lonely road, they made some racial comments and I was nervous, anything could have happened at that moment but I’m glad it didn’t. Tell us about the most challenging part of your career and if you ever thought of quitting due to it? I thought about not playing in the WNBA anymore because of what I went through and what it represents, but I never thought about quitting basketball. D’Tigeress are competing at the upcoming Tokyo Olympics for the very first time. How does it feel to be leading the team as their co-captain to such a historic accomplishment? It’s fulfilling, knowing what has been contributed to getting us to where we are now and I’m grateful for every opportunity given to me by the federation and coaching staff to co-captain the team. I’m hoping to give my very best in Tokyo to make sure we succeed in our quest and make more history. I’m really excited for Tokyo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com