‘Tosin Oluwalowo President, Athletics Federation of Nigeria, Ibrahim Gusau, has kicked against his dismissal as Chairman, Zamfara State Athletics Association. Zamfara State Directorate of Sports Development on Monday, in a statement, announced Gusau’s removal. The statement, signed by the state Director of Sports, Isikaya Shameel, said Gusau was removed as the Zamfara athletics boss after “extensive deliberations” by the management and stakeholders of the association. The statement added that Jamilu Gusau had been appointed as the new chairman of the state’s athletics body. The AFN has been in crisis after the federation, at a congress chaired by Gusau, declared autonomy from the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development December last year. Another faction of the body led by Gusau’s vice, Olamide George, subsequently suspended Gusau and later impeached him, appointing George as the new AFN president. A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on July 1, however declared Gusau’s removal as the AFN president illegal, but the sports ministry appealed the judgement at the Court of Appeal. Speaking with our correspondent on his removal on Monday, Gusau, said he was duly elected into office, adding that those behind his dismissal “don’t have an understanding of how things work.” “The chairmanship position is not by appointment, but through election. So, how can somebody say I have been removed and somebody else appointed? Normally, we are elected, not appointed,” Gusau told The PUNCH. “I’ve been quiet because this issue is in court, but sports federation’s chairmen are not appointed. I contested in an election and won. I think they don’t have an understanding of how things work. There is a case in court, so, I will wait for the court.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  