Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin Kwara State Commissioner for Special Duties, Hajia Aishat Ahman-Pategi, on Friday, resigned her appointment from the cabinet of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. The resignation letter was tendered on Friday. It was gathered that the resignation was not unconnected with the alleged N300 million monthly deduction from the allocation fund of the 16 local government councils from the federation account raised a few months ago. Ahman-Pategi was alleged to have confronted her colleague in the finance ministry, Mrs Florence Oyeyemi, of alleged diversion of N300 million council funds monthly without her knowledge. Governor Abdulrazaq had set up a commission of inquiry headed by Retired Justice Mathew Adewara to look into the alleged diversion of the N300m local government councils funds as well as asking the Ilorin zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to commence an investigation into the alleged fraud in the local government funds. Ahman-Pategi was moved from her former Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs to Special Duties in a minor Cabinet reshuffle in May. Her letter of resignation, dated Friday, August 28, 2020, and addressed to the governor read, “I, Aisha Ahman Pategi, the outgoing Hon. Commissioner for Special Duties, effective from today, Friday 28th August, 2020, humbly wish to formally announce my resignation from the cabinet of His Excellency, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. “I wish to thank God Almighty for giving me the grace and opportunity to serve as Commissioner for Local Government and now exiting as Commissioner for Special Duties, serving my fellow Kwarans and representing Pategi Local Government in our drive to better the lot of Kwarans.” READ ALSO: FG planning to pay private schoolteachers, artisans – Osinbajo The letter added, “Life is in phases and I’m bold to say that having journeyed the political terrain with His Excellency, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, now is the time for me to leave and focus on new ideals.
“Going forward, my interest in Community Service and Grassroots Development will continue. “Once again, I would like to thank Almighty Allah, the People of Patigi, Kwarans, our dear party APC, and most of all, His Excellency for bringing me into politics. May Allah reward him and continue to be his guide as he pilots the affairs of our dear State. God bless Pategi, Kwara, and Nigeria. With love and gratitude to all.” Ahman-Pategi was the second aide to Abdulrazaq to have resigned from the Cabinet as Professor Wale Sulaiman, Special Adviser on Health also tendered his resignation letter two weeks ago.