Friday Olokor, Abuja The Northern Elders Forum on Sunday slammed the National Assembly over constitutional review, describing it as a waste of resources and energy. The organisation called on the National Assembly to direct its energy to convince the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to stop the insurgency in the North-East; killings in most parts of North-Central and North-West and other parts of the country. The NEF Director (Publicity and Advocacy), Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, expressed these views during a press briefing in Abuja. He said, “Since 1999, past National Assembly spent huge amount of Nigerian people’s money on jamborees that gave them false hope that the three arms of government respect the overwhelming desire of Nigerians for a holistic and genuine review and amendment of the 1999 Constitution. “The NEF is convinced that this repetitive initiative of the Senate is of no value and a predictable waste of time. “Nigeria’s future rests largely on its willingness to address major constraints to equity and justice, a functional structure, consistent good governance, security for all citizens, a credible electoral process, growing understanding between and among all groups and an economy that grows and narrows inequalities between and classes and regions.” “Forum advises the National Assembly to direct its energy and mandate towards convincing President Muhammadu Buhari to bring an end to the insurgency in the North-East and killings in most parts of North-Central and North-West and other parts of the country. “It advises the Senate to jettison the wasteful idea of giving Nigerians the impression that it is involved in a serious review of our constitution.” The NEF also recommended the alternative of leaders of thought, elders, groups and professional organisations and representatives of government to freely discuss every element of the co-existence as a country under principles of voluntarism, genuine representation mutual respect and integrity of the process. NBC, NTC exams begin Sept. 21, says NABTEB NCFront to parley N’Assembly on constitution, electoral reforms Address insurgency, constitutional review waste of resources, NEF tells N’Assembly. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  