Folabi Fasanmi is the last child of late Second Republic Senator and Afenifere leader, Pa Ayo Fasanmi, who died in Osogbo on Wednesday, July 29, 2020 at 94. He tells BOLA BAMIGBOLA about his dad’s last moments What do you think about your dad’s death? I see it as a glorious passage. Baba lived well. Life expectancy in Nigeria is 53 years; that is an upward movement from 49. If someone has lived up to 94, it is a good thing and we take solace in the fact that Baba lived a good life. Baba was a councillor, a member of the House of Representatives, a senator and an aspiring governorship candidate in the old Ondo State. We cannot, but give glory to God for his passing, which was very easy. He was not sick for long. He passed on peacefully. I’m sure he will be missed in the religious circle where he held the post of Baba Ijo of Saint John’s Anglican Church, Iye-Ekiti. He was also one of the leaders and elders at Cathedral Church of All Saints, Osogbo. What are some of his legacies? My father’s legacies are profoundly gratifying because he lived his life for the masses. For someone of Baba’s stature, he lived a moderate life. He did not live an ostentatious lifestyle that would involve having mansions in Canada, US, UK, and Abuja or Lagos. Though he was the Executive Director of Housing Corporation in defunct Western Region, he never acquired a plot of land for himself (through the corporation). One of the family members who used his name to acquire a plot of land in Akure was disowned and was not reunited into the family until he gave up the land he acquired using my father’s name. He started an anti-corruption crusade in the early 60s. He stood in the gap to fight corruption before we had the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission by arresting policemen that were collecting bribes on the roads. That action put them on their toes. We thank God because we could not have asked for a better father. What was your last moment with him? I had my last moment with him at the hospital. He was excited to see me. He was being fed by the nurses. He took his medications graciously and asked about my welfare. He had just taken his bath and was to be discharged two days later. We were supposed to come home to prepare the house for his return. He said he would like to eat pounded yam and we had the pounded yam ready, only for us to be told by one of the nurses that his condition had worsened and that they would need to do a further evaluation. We had faith that he would be discharged soon but unfortunately due to his old age, he answered the call of his creator when it came. He fought gallantly but when one’s time is up, you have to answer the call; nothing can change it. What kind of father was he? He was everything we wanted in a father. He was compassionate, loving and caring. I had a terrible accident last year in my car; it was a complete write-off. My dad sympathised with me. He did not only sympathise with me; few weeks after the accident, he gave me the key of a brand new car. My father would never allow his children to suffer or go through any form of hardship. He lived his life for the masses by making sure that everything he did was channelled towards the common man and the good of the people. READ ALSO: I can’t wish what I experienced for anybody –Survivor of Lagos gas explosion How many children did he have? He had six children; one is dead. Incidentally, the one who died was Ayo Fasanmi Jnr. Out of the five children left, three are women and they are all resident in the United States. I’m a geoscientist and my brother is a judge in Ekiti State. Senator Fasanmi spent the better part of his life in Osogbo, Osun State; did he tell you why? He came to do what some of our medical personnel call ‘House Job’ in Osogbo in 1951 and he found it to be a very peaceful place – serene and quiet. So, he settled here and got married. Osogbo has been our home and not many people believe that we are not from here. We have been well received and integrated here and the governor, who is amiable, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola, was very gracious in making available medical services to try to save Baba. Did your father leave any instruction as to how he should be buried? Yes, he said he should be buried almost immediately and he had a tomb constructed for him and our mother. Our mother was buried in 2014 and is in the lower deck while our father is going to be buried in the upper chamber of the tomb. He wanted it that way because of the love and affection they shared. Baba has gone to join Mama. With the good life he lived, I know he’s been ushered to the right-hand corner in heaven. What did he tell you about his childhood? His dad was a bricklayer and he made personal efforts to attain greatness in life. As a person, I learnt a lot from him. I learnt to be selfless and interestingly, I’m his only child that is in politics. I was a Special Adviser to Ahmed Bola Tinubu on Mineral Resources in Lagos State between 2003 and 2007. My father’s shoes are too big to step into and I believe that even if I cannot surpass his legacies, I should be able to sustain them. We are very proud of him and very proud to be his children and we know he is happy wherever he is now. The angels have ushered him into paradise because he was a man who was always thinking about heaven, the gospel and spiritual things. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] Sallah: Muslims shun social distancing rule in Katsina, Bauchi, Yobe What are important life lessons you learnt from him? He never allowed earthly and worldly things to corrupt his mind and I can say he was the first person to champion the fight against corruption in Nigeria in the early 60s. I remember vividly that he arrested police officers who were taking bribes during that period. He was a dogged fighter; he fought till the end. He was supposed to be discharged when he suddenly suffered a relapse. The doctor had said he could go home, but complications set in as a result of his old age However, I can tell you that we are happy that he had a peaceful ending. He didn’t suffer and was not ill for long so we appreciate God for his life. We also want to appreciate the government of Osun State for making medical services available to him in his dying moment. He lost his wife in the year 2014, how much did that affect him? My mum was his soul mate. She was very critical to my father’s life because they were inseparable. They were an example of how Christian couples should be. They won so many awards and good lessons that should be learnt in marriage were what they exemplified – pure love, true love, companionship, and friendship. Those things set them apart from others. Baba has gone to be with his darling wife; no wonder they decided to share the same tomb. Mama was buried in 2014 and Baba will be buried next Tuesday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 