’Femi Asu Rainoil Limited, an integrated downstream oil and gas company, has unveiled a Liquefied Petroleum Gas plant with a tank capacity of 8,000 metric tonnes in Ijegun, Lagos. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said the establishment of the plant aligned with the Federal Government’s drive to deepen cooking gas penetration and attain five million MT of LPG consumption by 2022. Sylva inaugurated the facility on Thursday alongside the Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari. He said, “Rainoil is really working in tandem with the vision of the Federal Government in making gas a preferred fuel in the country. ”I am excited at what I am seeing here today. Everything can speak for itself.  Energy is very important in the global economy and I am glad that Nigerians are playing key roles in the oil and gas industry.” The NNPC GMD commended Rainoil for partnering with the government to boost domestic gas utilisation and the development of the gas sector in the country. “We believe that gas is our next instrument for developing our economy, and we commend Rainoil for its effort in ensuring the use of gas in the country,” Kyari said. He said the NNPC would continue to lead activities to enhance gas utilisation in the country. The Group Managing Director, Rainoil Limited, Dr Gabriel Ogbechie, said the decision to invest in growing the LPG sector started in 2018. He said, “We believe this investment will increase domestic storage flexibility for LGP and provide direct and indirect employment opportunities, including training, skills acquisition, transfer and enhancement. “It will also add environmental protection benefits of reducing gas flaring and encouraging the use of cleaner fuel. “Our investment in the project is substantial as we now account for 16.6 per cent of the LPG storage in the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 