Popoola Adebayo, an elder brother to 20-year-old Ayomide Taiwo, the fashion designer who died recently following an alleged attack by a policeman in Osun State, speaks with BOLA BAMIGBOLA on the incident and demands justice for the deceased What is your name? I am Adebayo Popoola. Who was the deceased to you? He was my brother and he was also an apprentice with me. We were born by the  same mother but different fathers. His dad died a long time ago. He completed his apprenticeship not long ago and was already preparing for the ceremony for his ‘freedom.’ He took permission from me to travel to Owena and work in order to raise money and I granted the request. I live and work in Iragbiji, in the Boripe Local Government Area of Osun State. He spent two and a half years with me. He had already collected the list of materials needed for his ‘freedom.’ What is your occupation? I am a fashion designer and that was what Ayomide learnt from me. What happened on the day he had an encounter with the police? That Tuesday (August 4), Ayomide met me at the shop and said he was going to Owena and I told him he could proceed on the journey. I was also travelling to the same town that day. So, we all set out.  I rode a different motorcycle. He also rode a motorcycle and travelled with a boy called Oladimeji Hammed and they were a few distance ahead of me. The journey was smooth until we got to Ere Ijesa area. What happened at that point? From Ibokun town, we saw different sets of policemen at checkpoints. Those at the checkpoints were demanding between N50 and N100 from us. When one of the policemen said he would not take N50, I jokingly told him  that I spent a lot during the Ileya period. They were not harsh. But at Ere Ijesa junction, at the spot the police usually park their Armoured Personnel Carrier, Ayomide was stopped at the roadblock there. There were about four policemen at the spot. I arrived at the spot a few minutes after Ayo had been injured on the head by one inspector. How did that happen? Hammed, who was at the back of the motorcycle that Ayomide rode, said the inspector, after they had been stopped at the checkpoint, left where he sat and walked towards them. He was carrying Regal Gin with one hand and cigarette with the other hand. READ ALSO: Enugu govt demolishes church, equipment worth N70m He asked where they were coming from and going to and they responded well. He later asked them for money. Ayo offered him N50 but he rejected it and asked for N100. But the boy did not have a N100 note and he brought out N1,000 from his pocket where he kept about N50,000. I don’t know why that action should make anyone angry, but the inspector became angry and talked angrily at Ayo saying he lied that he didn’t have money. He hit him on the head with the butt of the rifle. Ayo slumped and the motorcycle fell on him and Hammed that sat at back. At what point did you arrive at the scene? I got there immediately Ayo fell from the motorcycle. He was bleeding from the mouth, ear and nostrils. Immediately that happened the other three policemen at the checkpoint fled. But I held the inspector, as he also attempted to run away. People around also joined us. And we stopped him. Some of our friends that had sped off because they didn’t see us following them turned back and met us at the scene. A policeman, Mr Oriknago, who was also part of the patrol but not at the scene when the incident happened, returned to the spot and met us. He carried Ayo in his car and we rushed him to hospital. The DPO and a policeman, called Ola, joined us and we took the boy to Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Teaching Hospital, Osogbo. What happened thereafter? When we got to LAUTECH, the hospital personnel wanted to reject him, but because we were led there by policemen, they eventually admitted the boy.  They asked to us to make a deposit of N50,000. The DPO brought N30,000 that night and we added N20,000 to it. Why Ayo was at the hospital, what happened there? He was in a coma and was on oxygen throughout. Did he say anything? No, he did not talk and he did not open his eyes. We thought he would recover because he moved his body once. While he was on admission, we paid for an X-ray and drugs. I have the receipts with me. We spent about N180,000 during the six days he spent there. The receipts of the drugs bought by the police are with them too. Two policemen, Orikango and Ola, stayed with us. Before leaving Iragbiji on that fateful day, did Ayo have any inkling of what was going to happen to him? No, he did not. That wasn’t the first time he would travel through the route. Thank God Ayo was not the only one that embarked on the journey. If it were to be only him and an incident like this happened, they would have dumped his body in the bush. The perpetrator wanted to abscond before we got there. I was coming behind him with my own motorcycle. That gave me the opportunity to witness what actually happened. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Why mental disorders are increasing among Nigerian workers — Psychiatrists What are your demands? This is the second time the police would kill a native of Iragbiji along that road and at the same spot. The perpetrator should be punished for his actions. Also, the leadership of police in Osun State should monitor more what their men at checkpoints are doing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 