Peter Dada, Akure Indications have emerged that the cold war between the Deputy Senate Leader, Senator Ajayi Boroffice and the Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has ended as the senator has begun to campaign for the governor ahead of the October 10, governorship election in Ondo State Akeredolu and Boroffice have not been on the same page politically since the beginning of Akeredolu’s administration in 2016. The senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District is also one of the leaders of the anti-Akeredolu group in the party, the Unity Forum. However, it was gathered that the senator has purchased some branded bags of rice to distribute to the people of Ondo North as part of his contribution to the ongoing campaign for Akeredolu’s second term bid as the state governor. A source said the senator’s gesture was not unconnected with the outcome of the reconciliation efforts made by the Ondo State Reconciliation Committee headed the Niger State Governor, Mallam Sani Bello. “The reconciliation is yielding positive results, Governor Sani Bello’s committee is making success, this is one of the results,” the source noted. Similarly, an aide to the senator, who preferred to be anonymous because he was not authorised to speak on the matter, confirmed the development to our correspondent. He said, “Yes it is true that the senator wants to distribute some bags of rice just to cushion the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic to the people of Ondo North, on be behalf of the governor. The war between him and Govenor Akeredolu has ended and Senator Boroffice has promised to support the governor in the October election.” In a reaction to the issue, the Chairman of the APC, Mr Ade Adetimehin, said everybody in the party has been contributing to ensure that the party won the forthcoming governorship election. “Everybody in the party is contributing in whatever form, all they are doing is to ensure that our party wins the election. No more faction, no more war, it is no more Akeredolu’s matter again, it is all the APC members’ matter and we are all working together as one family to make sure we win the election,” Adetimehin stated. 