Olaleye Aluko I use 15 litres of fuel every day to get to my house in Iju from Ikeja,” Akinlabi David, a motorist, said angrily while speaking with our correspondent on Wednesday. “In this COVID-19 pandemic era when there is no money and business is bad, how does the government expect us to survive? How does the government expect us to cope with a bridge under construction for close to three years?” he added. David’s Toyota Highlander had been stuck in traffic for close to 45 minutes at the diversion route created to link Abule Egba because of the ongoing construction of the Agege Pen-Cinema Flyover, which has made movement strenuous for residents and motorists. Another motorist, Azeez Ahmed, who also expressed disappointment, said he was frustrated passing through the area every day. He stated, “There is no reason for not completing this bridge on time, because what it will cost is not up to half of what was spent on Oshodi and other bridges. This is a road which links to Abule Egba and to the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway and work has been going on slowly. It is not fair.’’ A woman in her early 50 who refused to give her name said she had been going through a tough time since the demolition of the house in which her shop was located. She added, “My shop was demolished in January 2018. My business has been paralysed since then. I was selling foodstuffs and grocery items in one of the buildings which were pulled down. Two years into that demolition, to move freely within Pen Cinema is a problem. We have to walk round and round any time we are going out. What kind of suffering is this?.” Motorists around the Pen Cinema Flyover had different tales of woes on how the slow construction work of the flyover had affected their trade and movements. The Agege Pen-Cinema Flyover is a project started by the administration of ex-Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in December 2017, to crisscross Oba Ogunji Road and Pen Cinema area and over the railroad, terminating at the Agunbiade Street or Oke-Koto area of the Agege community. The third section of the bridge extends to the old Abeokuta highway into Abule Egba. The total length of the bridge is approximately 1.4 Kilometres and it is designed to have streetlight facilities and pedestrian walkways. The Ambode administration set December 2018–one year–as the delivery date for the project, with the hope of getting a second term. However, the turn of political events which saw the former governor losing his reelection bid contributed to the gradual abandonment of the project till he left office in May 2019. In January 2020, prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the new governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, revived the hopes of the residents of the area during a tour of the project when he announced that the project would be delivered by July. Now, commuters’ and motorists along Pen Cinema, Orile, Railway and Isokoko environs in the Agege area of the state are groaning over the daily hardship they encounter as the project has dragged for close to three years. A commuter, Ifedayo Ajao, said it had become tough passing through the area to Alausa every day. She said, “I am tired of the daily stress on the road. I only hope it will be completed soon.” A road transport official at the Orile Agege Motor Park, Alhaji Fatai Abdulganiyu, said upon completion, the flyover would make movement comfortable for residents of the entire Agege, to Ifako Ijaiye and those in the Alimosho Local Government Area. Abdulganiyu said, “The bridge is to link Pen Cinema to other places such as Iju, Fagba and other roads that are close by. “But it is now at a slow pace. Yes, every day, we see engineers and a few tractors, but I can tell you that the work is not moving fast as it should. It would seem like the state government wants to drag it throughout its first tenure.” Our correspondent observed how motorists and residents trying to link Abule Egba from Pen Cinema drove through a diversion passing the railway line, thereby compounding gridlock in the area. In January 2020, when the governor was at the Pen Cinema flyover during an inspection tour of ongoing projects across the state, including the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, he said, “At the completion of this bridge, we are not only going to see improvement in traffic management in the area, it would also shoot up the value of the real estate in Agege and neighbouring communities. Quality of life will also improve because the bridge construction forms part of Items 9 and 11 of the Sustainable Development Goals, which seek to deliver a smart community. “Road, rail and bridge are being developed in Agege to solve traffic congestion, transportation challenges and movement of people from one part of the state to another. At the completion of this bridge, businesses in this area will flourish. We will push the contractor in this dry season to complete this bridge by early July.” Later in May 2020, the Deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, during an unsceduled visit to the site assured residents that the bridge would be completed soon. “Work is ongoing and I am impressed with the progress made so far. Though we still have a long way to go, I am optimistic that the construction work will soon be completed and residents can make use of the bridge,” he had said. Later in May, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Aramide Adeyoye, said during a press conference to commemorate Sanwo-Olu’s first year in office that the government would complete the project before the end of the year. She had assured that ongoing and uncompleted projects inherited from past administrations, especially the immediate past administration would be completed. “This will afford the people the opportunity to connect Agege and Abule-Egba from the Berger axis of the state,” she added. However, with four months remaining in the year, residents enjoined the state government to speed up the construction and honour its promise to the people so that life and movement could blossom again in the area. When contacted, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, said COVID-19 pandemic was partly responsible for the delay, stating that the state government was certain to deliver the project by year end. He said, “When you visited the bridge, were they working at the site? Okay. You know COVID-19 took several months from our programme. For several months, nothing was sure. Like the governor said, the project was planned for opening by July, and then COVID-19 came. I think by the end of the year, it should be ready. “The fact that people are working there shows that the government is committed. This is a big project that no government will want to ignore. The governor has visited the place and assessed it. He has said that no project that was uncompleted will be left so. That is why you are seeing people working on the bridge.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 