Olaleye Aluko with agency report Some 30 Nigerian girls who were trafficked to Lebanon have appealed to the Federal Government to rescue them as they are currently stranded in that country. They made the appeal in a statement by the President of Journalists International Forum for Migration, Mr Ajibola Abayomi, which was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria on Friday. Abayomi noted that the girls were all camped in one room with faulty toilet and other utilities, as they were presently housed in a building at Dawra city in Lebanon. “JIFORM has forwarded details of the human trafficking agents involved in this matter to the relevant agencies and shall monitor it to the logical conclusion to ensure proper investigation and prosecution of those involved,” the statement said. Abayomi said one of the victims, Adebisi Comfort-Oluwatoyin, with Passport No. number A10597908, disclosed to JIFORM that they had to escape from the inhuman treatment by their mistresses and hosts. According to him, the 23-year-old lady hails from Ondo State, graduated from the Edo State Polytechnic, Ekpoma, and was a resident in Osun State before departing Nigeria in December, 2019. “Help us plead with the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons and others to save us. The Nigerian Embassy in Lebanon has tried but we want to go back home. “Our belongings and international passports were seized with no payments for the service we have been rendering for months. They loosen and cut our hair with a razor blade. Abayomi said that the Executive Director, Rescue Africans in Slavery Organisation, Ms Omotola Fawunmi, who spoke from the United States of America, also pleaded with the government and other agencies to come to the victims’ aid. Meanwhile, the Federal Government on Friday evacuated 212 stranded Nigerians from Egypt back to the country as the Eid-el Kabir celebration was ongoing. The evacuees were received at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, around 1.50pm, according to the Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa. In a tweet on Friday, the DG noted that the Nigerians had been asked to proceed on isolation in line with the protocols of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 