ADELANI ADEPEGBA and TONY OKAFOR A 30-year-old woman from Ogidi, in the Idemili Local Government Area of Anambra State on Saturday allegedly threw her newborn baby boy into the toilet. A resident, who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said she had been complaining to some people that she did not like the sex of her baby. “I learnt she went for a scan some weeks ago and was told that her baby was a boy; whereas, she was expecting a baby girl. “Those closed to her said she had been angry about that. I won’t know whether that could be the reason for her action,” the resident stated. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident, saying that the baby was recovered dead from the toilet. Mohammed added, “On Saturday, around 8.30am, operatives attached to Ogidi Division arrested one Franca Udokwu, 30, of Obuba Obofia Nkpor Community in Idemili North LGA of Anambra State. The suspect allegedly gave birth to a baby boy and dumped the child inside a pit toilet inside her house. “Upon interrogation, the suspect led police detectives to the scene of crime where the baby was recovered and taken to Iyi-Enu Mission Hospital for medical attention but was confirmed dead on arrival by a medical doctor.” Meanwhile, the Federal Capital Territory Police Command on Friday rescued two children allegedly locked in a toilet and subjected to inhuman treatment by their guardian who lived on the second floor of a two-storey building in FCDA Quarters, Garki, Abuja. One of the children, Wisdom, nine years, who managed to escape through the window of the apartment, raised the alarm that led to the rescue of the second victim, Nwoga, also nine-year-old. READ ALSO: Drama as police arrest trader eating excreta with bread The police spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, disclosed in a statement on Saturday, that Nwoga was rescued from the apartment by operatives from Garki Police Division and Federal Fire Service. The statement titled, ‘Police operatives rescue kids subjected to inhuman treatment by guardian,’ read in part, “The guardian, Mrs Loveth Ilobi, was reported to have been subjecting the children to undue hardship and inhuman treatment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 