’Femi Asu The Nigerian Air Force has said it is looking to partner with Tranos Contracting Limited on the production of spare parts for its aircraft as part of efforts to boost local content. The NAF disclosed this on Tuesday during a visit by a delegation, led by the Commandant, Air Force Institute of Technology, Air Vice Marshal Abdulganiyu Olabisi, to the company’s engineering and manufacturing facility in Lagos. The Director, Public Relations and Information, NAF, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said, “This visit to Tranos Contracting Limited is at the instance of the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. “It is in compliance with Executive Order Five of Mr President which focuses on local content in terms of procurement, and development of science, technology and innovation. “So, we are here to seek ways of collaborating with this company as we have done with other companies in developing indigenous solutions to our technological challenges as the Nigerian Air Force. “Some of the issues that are involved are the production of spares and necessary rotables for our aircraft.” Daramola noted that a number of restrictions placed on air travels had affected supply chains amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He said, “That has driven us to look even more inwards in terms of looking for solutions to these issues. Right now, the original equipment manufacturers have scaled down in terms of production and that will be a problem. “So, for the Nigerian Air Force to be able to make sure it is self-sufficient, we need to look more inwards to look for solutions. “That is why partnerships like the one that we are about entering into with Tranos will come into place and be able to give us such solutions that are cost-effective, realistic and that would ensure that self-sufficiency will be realised.” The Managing Director, Tranos Contracting Limited, Mr Jude Abalaka, who appreciated the team for the visit, said, “It shows how seriously the Nigerian Air Force takes this sort of partnership. “We see that the Air Force really values technology. We are a technology company. We have engineering and manufacturing capability, and it is about providing solutions. “Going forward, what we are going to be looking at is: what are the challenges that the Nigerian Air Force might be facing that we might be able to help address in terms of electrical and mechanical aspects of their aircraft. “There is also a drive for made-in-Nigeria, and we are a company that has focused on investment in equipment, personnel, and training to be able to do a lot of things locally.” Abalaka described the visit as the first step, saying the company was open to discussions on how to put a firm arrangement in place. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  