’Tosin Oluwalowo Rivers United have rejected the decision of the Football Committee of the Nigeria Football Federation, which on Tuesday ratified the final league table of the 2019/20 season of the Nigeria Professional Football League released by the League Management Company. The LMC applied the Point Per Game to determine positions for the final NPFL table, following the abrupt cancellation of the league due to COVID-19. It’s the latest scenario in the face-off between the football body and the NPFL side, who were adjudged third on the log behind leaders Plateau United and second-place Enyimba, by the LMC, following the application of the Points Per Game rule. It means, Rivers, hitherto second before the controversial PPG application, will now play in the second-tier CAF Confederation Cup next season, rather than the showpiece CAF Champions League, with Enyimba taking their place. The NFF on Tuesday, in a statement titled, ‘NFF Football Committee sanctions NPFL 2019/2020 final table,’ said the federation’s Football Committee endorsed the final table. According to the NFF, the LMC followed due process before arriving at the decision to use the PPG format to determine league positions, and the head-to-head rule in placing Enyimba above Rivers. Reacting, Permanent Secretary, Rivers State Ministry of Youth and Sports, Honour Sirawoo, said Rovers United have rejected, saying the club will seek for justice at the Court of Arbitration for Sport. “PPG does not respect the number of matches you have played, its only points and margin that brings everybody to bar. So, we did our calculations and Rivers United came second and we thanked them for that and also said if that is implemented, that would be the rule and that is the rule,” Sirawoo, who also doubles as President, Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, told The PUNCH. “Our argument is that there is a subsisting arrangement that recognises and envisages Force Majure, because the parameter for determining who wins any league competition is points. So, if they, in Article 2.9, say positions will be decided by points, then goals difference, then goals for and against, before head-to-head, they cannot jump and go to head-to-head. “If they are saying in fairness because Enyimba did not play the number of matches we played, that we should be reasonable, we will also tell them that we didn’t play Enyimba in Port Harcourt. In that case, if they say fairness and they toss a coin, we will accept it. But they should not tell us that they applied PPG and that everybody has played equal games and then come back to say some people have suffered disadvantage, and they will enjoy it while we suffer. If we have not used PPG, Enyimba cannot leave their position to be where they are. Sirawoo described NFF’s claim that Rivers United’s complaint on the PPG standings was belated and came only after “the final decision to end the league was taken and weeks after the league standings were established” as false. “They cannot also say our position was belated, because the day it was agreed was the day Rivers United General Manager released our statement, and we sent a letter to the LMC the next day, informing them of our position. “But they took over two months to respond to us and immediately they responded, the next day, we reacted. They are just trying to give a dog a bad name just to hang it, and we will challenge it at CAS and get international interpretation to it,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 