Friday Olokor, Abuja Four political parties contesting the Ondo State governorship election scheduled for October 10 2020 that had made valid nominations have substituted their candidates, the Independent National Electoral Commission said on Friday. According to INEC, while the African Democratic Congress, Action Democratic Party, and the Peoples Democratic Party withdrew and substituted their Deputy governorship candidates, the Zenith Labour Party substituted both its governorship and Deputy governorship candidates. The commission also the publication of the final list of nominated candidates in its State and Local Government offices in Ondo State. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, made the announcement in a statement entitled: ‘Publication of the final list of nominated candidates for Ondo governorship election.’ The statement which was issued after its weekly regular meeting on Thursday deliberated on the conduct of the Ondo governorship election scheduled as well as other outstanding elections. Okoye said, “INEC held its weekly regular meeting on Thursday August 20 2020 and deliberated on the conduct of the Ondo governorship election scheduled for Saturday October 10 2020 as well as other outstanding elections. “It will be recalled that on July 31 2020, the commission published the provisional list of candidates for the Ondo governorship election comprising 17 political parties. In accordance with section 35 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and as provided in the timetable and schedule of activities released on February 6 2020, withdrawal and substitution of candidates ended at 6.00pm on August 18 2020. “Four political parties that earlier made valid nominations have substituted their candidates. The ADC, ADP, and PDP withdrew and substituted their Deputy governorship candidates while the ZLP substituted both its governorship and Deputy governorship candidates. “Consequently, the Commission has published the final list of nominated candidates in our State and LG offices in Ondo State. The list is also available on our website and social media platforms. “Political parties, candidates in the election, and members of the public are advised to check the final list of candidates and be guided accordingly.”