Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has threatened to petition the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over heads of ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government, who shun its summons. The House Committee on Public Accounts, at its investigative hearing on Wednesday, expressed its displeasure with the top government officials, who allegedly refused to answer invitations to explain financial irregularities traced to their agencies or to clarify some records provided by other agencies. The committee was particularly miffed by the non-appearance of the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emiefele; Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Melee Kyari; Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman; and the Director-General, Bureau for Public Enterprises, Alex Okoh. The National Emergency Management Agency and the Petroleum Equalisation Fund also failed to appear before the committee. They had been summoned by the panel over the sale of Federal Government’s landed property across the country. Chairman of the committee, Wole Oke, told the clerk of the committee to forward a petition to the President, through the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and the Chief of Staff to the President, informing Buhari of the refusal by the officials to honour the invitations to them. Oke said the panel would make the President to compel the officials and organisations to honour the invitations within seven days. Meanwhile, the Transmission Company of Nigeria and the Nigeria Electricity Liabilities Management Company denied selling any government property or being in possession of any proceed from the sale. The Managing Director of TCN, Sule Abdul-Aziz, said, “TCN was not involved in the sale of Federal Government’s landed property. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  