Adelani Adepegba, Abuja As part of moves to open up the inland waterways in the country, the Nigerian Navy and the Nigerian Export-Import Bank on Thursday signed a partnership agreement to carry out a survey of the inland maritime space. This is expected to lead to the production of marine charts for use by Nigerian mariners. The Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, signed the Memorandum of Understanding on behalf of the navy while the Managing Director, NEXIM, Abba Bello, signed for the financial institution at a ceremony at the NN headquarters, Abuja. Speaking during the event, Ibas noted that the planned exercise was sequel to the attainment of hydrographic survey and charting capacity by the navy. He said it was the constitutional responsibility of the Nigerian Navy to coordinate all national hydrographic surveys and produce charts for use by mariners within Nigeria. The CNS said, “Following the Nigerian Navy’s attainment of hydrographic survey and charting capacity with the unveiling of the first and second indigenous navigational charts, we are here today (Thursday) to move to the next phase towards opening up the nation’s inland waterways. “Today’s ceremony follows several months of tedious deliberations between the Nigerian Navy and NIWA-NEXIM partnership for the survey of Nigeria’s inland waterways.” Bello, in his remarks, noted the gap in transport infrastructure in the country, adding that the nation had not effectively utilized its natural maritime waterways and gateways. He said, “We are aware that the internal waterways due to many years of lack of dredging have become un-navigatable, as it is today. This MoU would complement other agreements that we have signed with Nigeria Inland Waterways, the Ministry of Mine and Steel Development and others.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 