Kayode Oyero The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, and his wife, Pastor Folu Adeboye, over the weekend appeared in public for the first time since the lockdown occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. The couple attended a minister ordination programme on Saturday at the church’s International Headquarters located along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. While the 78-year-old clergy donned a face shield, his 72-year-old wife was seen putting on a mask, in compliance with the protocol outlined by the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the government of Ogun State, where the church’s International Headquarters is located, okayed the reopening of worship centres effective last weekend after about five months of closure. Adeboye had since March preached to his millions of worshippers from the studio of church’s TV, DOVE Media. His sermons had been aired via social media also. The clergy, in one of his sermons, shortly after the PTF lifted the ban on religious gatherings, had said, “I believe some of you are already gathering in some parts of the world and we believe that you will now begin to enjoy the power of corporate prayers once again. “But as you gather together in all those places where you are free to gather, please remember those of us who cannot gather with you yet. “People like me and my wife cannot gather with you in Lagos because we are over 65 years of age and my grandchildren cannot gather with you yet because they are under 15 years of age. So, remember us in prayers, so that very soon, we will be able to join you.” The photo, posted on Instagram by the couple’s son, Leke Adeboye, on Monday, has since attracted comments from some social media users. @okiti_abraham commented, “These are our role models, always leading by example. Lord, please help us to follow our leaders even as you keep them stronger in Jesus’ name.” @daramoth_foods enthused, “This was Saturday during ordination. God bless daddy and mummy abundantly. I’m blessed to have my second ordination in RCCG. May we not do this in vain. IJMN.” @bigtinuke said, “Everywhere social distancing on that day. We did it on Saturday. Glory be to God.” @opeyemis_mumsandbabies commented, “We missed having service with dad and mum yesterday. So, we carried ourselves to church.” @apostolos_david_eric_a wrote, “Very good. Very neat. My prayer for you daily is more grace. Divine protection. Divine increase.” @deyanju_funmilayo said, “Our grandparents live by example.” @olayinkabalogun25 wrote, “This is good leadership. Thanks to mum and dad for your humility.”