Joseph Olaoluwa The Nigerian Shippers Council has vowed to protest surcharges imposed by the international shipping firms on cargoes imported from across the world. It said it would move against unethical practices at the ports, while joining alliances with the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and others to resist discriminatory charges on Nigerian cargo. The Executive Secretary, NSC, Hassan Bello, said this in Lagos during an interactive session with shippers and the organised private sector on Wednesday. He worried that doing business in Nigeria had become a nightmare and the council was set to sanitise the sector. Bello said, “What we are asking is the immediate withdrawal of this unjustified charges and further negotiation. “We are not averse to changes in shipping. “We have had an instance of this peak period charge. “But to spike it to 400 per cent increase is not something that any economy can bear and therefore, we are mounting lots of protestations but we must do it with our colleagues in the industry and our stakeholders.” He added, “The shippers, freight forwarders, manufacturers are our stakeholders and this is not acceptable. “It is not transparent or negotiated; this has the effect of crippling our economy. “If pharmaceutical companies, breweries and those who employ large amount of people are slapped with these charges, then they have to rationalise.” Bello said the surcharge was coming at a time when Nigeria was becoming one of the costliest ports to do business in the world. On the issue of container deposit, the NSC boss said he was working with the National Insurance Commission to insure shipping risks. He added that initiatives were being fashioned out to make the ports work 24 hours in a day, as well as automate the activities of the port. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  