Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin The Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, on Tuesday, inaugurated the commission of inquiry to examine the legality and fairness of the sale of public assets in the state between 1999 and 2019. The governor also inaugurated a panel of inquiry to investigate allegations that his administration had diverted N300m local government funds. While the panel on asset sales has two months to submit its report, the one on the local government funds was given two weeks to submit its findings. AbdulRazaq said the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had already begun a probe into the 16 local government areas’ allocations and disbursements based on his official invitation to the anti-graft agency to look into the matter. Speaking on the sale of government assets, the governor said the inquiry fitted into his pledge in his inaugural address to look into the past only to the extent that such would benefit the public and ensure that the mistakes of the past were not repeated by present occupiers of public offices. He said, “The setting up of this commission of inquiry serves to establish the fairness and legality of how property acquired with public funds were sold or acquired by private concerns. This is to be done with full consideration for the rights of all parties to fair hearing. “Where any of these public assets are found to have been unlawfully acquired or sold, the government will take all necessary steps to retrieve such along with other measures the commission may recommend to avert such in the future.” AbdulRazaq said the administration remained committed not to mismanage local government funds or any public funds. He added, “Until our coming, salaries of local government workers had either been amputated or delayed for weeks with arrears that run into billions of naira. We ended the era of salary delay and incomplete salary majorly on account of prudence, discipline and a determination not to mismanage public funds. “I was therefore shocked to hear the allegation of persons diverting N300m from local government funds since we came on board.” However, rather than let such claims go unattended, we felt that the right thing to do is to allow an unfettered scrutiny of every kobo that has accrued to the local governments and how such funds have been disbursed between May 29, 2019, and now.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     