Adelani Adepegba and Edward Nnachi THE military authorities have placed troops of 82 Division, Enugu, on high alert following the clash between the operatives of the Department of State Services and members of the Indigenous People of Biafra in Emene, Enugu. It also asked troops to avoid individual movement in uniforms outside the barracks in order to prevent reprisals by IPOB members. This is as the pro-Biafra group stated that though it had no plan for reprisal over the killing of its members in Enugu on Sunday, it had put measures in place for self-defence. The incident, IPOB claimed, led to the death of 21 of its members, while about two DSS operatives were said to have lost their lives, even as the police in Enugu maintained that only four IPOB members were killed. The Army,  in a signal dispatched to different formations and unit commanders, also warned troops to avoid losing their weapons to criminal elements, adding that commanders must sensitise their men to maintain high alert. The signal read, “Following the killing of two DSS personnel at Emene and subsequent attack on Keystone station at Awgu LGA by suspected IPOB members in Enugu State, I am directed to place troops on a high state of alert. “This is necessary to avert any attack by IPOB members on troops’ location in the AOR (area of responsibility). Furthermore, on no account must troops allow their weapons to be taken away by criminal elements. “Commanders at all levels must make deliberate efforts to sensitise troops under command to maintain alertness and avoid individual movement in uniforms outside the barracks for now. Please, treat (as) very important and act.” But speaking with The PUNCH on the telephone, on Wednesday, the IPOB’s Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, said the group had stepped-up itself for self-defence. He said, “We are not aware of any plan for reprisal by IPOB or any group over the incident in Enugu. But I can tell you that we have upgraded and stepped-up ourselves for self-defence now. So, currently it is a case of an eye for an eye. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  