TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN LAGOS State Governor, Babjide Sanwo-Olu, has announced that the reopening of tertiary institutions in the state will commence from September 14, 2020. The governor said this during a media briefing on Saturday at the State House in Marina where he explained that tentatively primary and secondary schools would resume by September 21. According to the governor, all tertiary institutions in Lagos State are to reopen for academic activities from September 14, 2020. The governor also directed primary and secondary schools across the state to resume on September 21, 2020, but said the date could be subjected to further review in the ongoing modelling of the state’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The reopening order is coming six months after all tertiary institutions and basic schools were shut on the order of the government, following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Sanwo-Olu said the decision to reopen the schools was carefully thought through, given the decline in the number of positive cases and the progress recorded in the state’s response. He asked the management of the schools to ensure adherence to the safety guidelines as they reopen their campuses for activities. Earlier, the Federal Government announced the resumption of exit pupils from August 4, 2020, to take this year’s West African Senior School Certificate Examination from August 17, 2020 to September 12, 2020. Sanwo-Olu said, “I am pleased to announce that tertiary institutions in Lagos State will reopen from September 14, 2020.  We are also working towards the reopening of primary and secondary schools anytime from September 21, 2020. However, the decision to reopen the basic and secondary schools is not cast in stone and is subject to a review of our ongoing modelling of the state’s response to the pandemic. “Also, social clubs and recreational centres that have registered trustees have also been permitted to open, on the condition that they have applied for and obtained a Provisional Safety Compliance Certificate through the registration portal of the Lagos State Safety Commission. Restaurants are now permitted to open for in-dining services, but they must ensure the maintenance of a 50 per cent maximum occupancy at any point in time. They must also have obtained a provisional Safety Compliance Certificate.” Sanwo-Olu said his government was sympathetic to the plight of business owners, especially those operating in the hospitality and tourism sectors. He said the state government was still reviewing the permissible opening dates for businesses in tourism and hospitality industry, pointing out that there would be concrete decisions on easing the lockdown on tourism businesses before the end of September. The governor directed all event centres, bars, lounges, nightclubs, spas, beaches, cinemas, gymasiums and game arcades to remain shut till further notice. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 