BIN is an abbreviation for Bank Identification Number. It is usually the 6-digit numbers of your debit or credit card number. Others call it your IIN, Issuer Identification Number. The reason for the creation of BIN is map out malpractices like fraud. Business merchants are usually the ones who enjoy the advantage of BIN. As they can avoid different financial crimes and malpractices. Merchants can use BIN to fish out buyers who are trying to do a fake financial transaction. The idea of BIN numbering system is a good one. It assists in identification of any potential identity theft and security breaches. It was created by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). What is a BIN checker? Yes, before we go into the main juice of the post, we find it helpful to explain one or two things. As a Seller or Merchant, you always need to check your buyers/customers BIN as frequently as possible. To avoid stories that touch your heart and you lose a lot. In the world we live in today, we have people who are there to dupe you. They are always looking for merchants that are ignorant or lazy to dupe. The Credit Card fraud is becoming rampant in the world we live in today. And merchants are losing money and investment to these fraudsters. With a BIN Checker app, you can check for your customers BIN number. The BIN checker usually provides the details about the owner of the card. Information like Issuer Name, Currency, Scheme, Card Number and Card Issuing Country. You can verify it with the information your customers provide. This way, you can fish out fraudsters and secure your money and business. Why do we need a BIN checker? As a merchant, you might wonder why you need a BIN checker. But with the way the world is, fraud transaction has become an easy thing to do. Unsuspecting merchants can easily be targeted, losing money to fraudsters. If you are to secure your business from varying fraud transactions. It’s very important you use a BIN checker. If you don’t, you might be duped of your hard-earned money. As a merchant, if you have a website. You can integrate a BIN checker into your website payment system. The BIN checkers will always scan the customers BIN. This takes place before any transaction takes place. If the details provided are correct, the transaction will proceed. But they are different, then the transaction will get cancelled. We have to be wary of corrupt minded individuals who are out to prey on the weakness of merchants. So other reasons why you need a BIN checker includes the following; BIN or Bank identification number checker usually provide the following information.  Details to Merchants about a particular BIN like: There are lots of BIN/IIN checkers when you surf the internet. But the issue about these BIN checkers is their database. A whole lot of BIN checkers have outdated database. Having a good BIN Checker, it must have an accurate and updated database. A good BIN Checker should always have a large database and must include BIN numbers used in America. This article has gone great lengths, combing through the net. Looking for the very best BIN Checker for you to make use of as a merchant. These sites are the very best you can get, you can integrate these BIN Checkers into your website. So, securing your site from fraud and scam.  Top 3 BIN Checkers You Should Try Out One of the best BIN Checker to make use of as a Merchant. It provides a sort of premium service to users for checking any IIN/BIN number. All you need to do is simple, you input the first six digit of the Credit card number. The website will do the rest by searching for the BIN number in their database. One good thing about this site, they always update their database on a daily basis. They have the largest and most updated database when it comes to BIN Checker. They provide users with API to integrate into their business site. After the integration if the API, you site will be safe and secure. If the information provided by customers, differ from the information present on the BIN. The transaction will be cancelled immediately. Making your site safe and secure from fraudsters and scammers. You don’t have to worry about being scammed of your hard-earned efforts. Well, as per the privacy policy of the site. The data that is put in by the user, is usually removed after the verification process is over.  This tool has other features but there is one that stands out. Its unique feature that makes it differ from others. The tool allows users to use different cards. Features of the Free BIN Checker. – Merchants can download the API for free. Which can be used for your site, without the merchant having to deal with any license issue. – The BIN checker accepts any credit card first six digit. – No worries about your customers privacy as it automatically clears all the data inputted into the site. This is done after the verification process has been complete. – It always provides accurate card data for the merchant to verify. With over 350,000 IIN/BIN numbers stored on their database. BankBinList is one of the best BIN Checker to make use of as a Merchant. They last updated their database as early as May this year. They have a cycle, whereby they update their list every 2-3months. This makes them of the most updated BIN checker to use. They usually connect the data gotten from various sources online. Afterwards, they filter this data gotten and dispose of the useless data gotten. Furthermore, they then refine all the data and information gotten which helps with accuracy of their database. Merchants are allowed to download the API into their site. One good thing, you are also allowed to download all the BIN data from the site. And you can export them in any format of your choice. When we talk about BankBinList, it has two major checks which are usually carried out by the system. The first one, ability of the app to link up BIN to its issuer. While the second one, it can use the BIN to show customers’ precise location. When these two tasks are carried out by the app, it always produces a quality result. This prevents fraud and scam. Similar to the previous one, it declines transaction if the information provided does not correlate. Features of the BANKBINLIST – Merchants can merge verification of two different countries together. – Provides merchants with precise and accurate information regarding a credit card. This information is gotten from its own database. – If the information present on the card varies from the information inputted. Transaction us declined to prevent crime. – Can carry out multiple actions at the same time. With it’s easy, slick and friendly user interface. You are sure going to enjoy using this site. It is quite different from the listed above, as you have to enter the first eight digits instead of the six digits of your credit card.  They will provide all the necessary details of the credit card number you inputted. The details are the ones we mentioned earlier, details that a good BIN Checker provides. As a Merchant, then it’s your turn to compare both information provided by your client. Then you check if they both correlate with each other. You can download their JavaScript, and use it for your website as a Merchant. They allow users to make use of their API on their site, this allows transactions easier and more secure for merchants. IINBINLIST is regarded as one of the easiest IIN/BIN checkers on the internet. It provides users with high accuracy of result. And provides instant information about the type of card. It is one of the sites you should try to check after reading this article. Features of the IINBINLIST – Provision of country, bank name, card type and the length of the card number of the credit/debit card. – User friendly interface, which makes it easy for anyone to use the site. – It boasts of a very high accuracy which is combined with a comprehensive database. –  The BIN list is always updated regularly by the site. – Merchants and users can make use of their API. Integrating it into their site, allowing them to have smooth and secure transactions. – As a user and a merchant, you are allowed to search 6 or 8 digits of the clients’ credit/debit card. In conclusion, This article has dealt with a lot of areas regarding BIN and BIN Checker. You should try out one of the three listed BIN checkers, to have a secure and safe transaction. Try as much as possible not be an ignorant merchant. Author: Tadas Ukrinas UAB Potissimus