Last week, Lagos residents had a feel of what the transit experience would be as the six-month partial lockdown of the Third Mainland Bridge for repairs, begins. The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, assured Lagos residents that “the partial closure of Third Mainland Bridge is not something that everybody should worry about, because this is an exercise that had been done before. For emphasis, the traffic disruption is only about 25 per cent of the regular traffic on the bridge. The 75 per cent of vehicles that normally ply the route will still have access to move on the bridge during the period of repair. “We have furnished and improved the design of the alternative routes, and we are still working on other arterial routes so that our people can have seamless journey times to and from their places of work. So, there is nothing commuters should worry about in this period. We will ensure the repair work on the Third Mainland Bridge does not overburden them. We will be deploying over 650 LASTMA officers on the road to control the traffic.” Although this assurance is supported by visible efforts to minimise inconveniences, many commuters complained of being stuck in traffic gridlock for up to five hours. Others said they had fallen victim to security breaches as the traffic situation snakes through the city, leaving them as sitting ducks for in-traffic thieves. However, some understand the perfect routing to beat the congestion, backed with knowledge on when to move, and alternative routes to use. The secret is to have the right information to be at the right place at the right time. It is critical to note that the bridge will only be closed partially and be routinely opened from time to time. It is smart thinking to understand the alternatives to embrace to help you better cope with the new reality as you go out to eke out a living. The following alternatives could be your best bet at minimising the inconveniences during the period of smart traffic management. Lagoon to the rescue In a bid to further ease the inconveniences that might be experienced by commuters in the next six months, the Lagos State Government has strengthened the state-owned Lagos Ferry (LAGFERRY) by doubling its capacity for mass movement. The vast Lagos lagoon delicately links the metropolis; hence water transportation is a good alternative. It is fast, convenient and safe. While the ability to swim is a huge advantage, it is not a requirement to board a boat. The Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) rigorously enforces safety requirements, which include the compulsory use of life jackets, meant to keep passengers afloat in the event of an unlikely accident. A journey from Ikorodu to Lekki takes less than 30 mins via water transport, and with more jetties now located across the lagoon-bordering communities, that is convenience brought closer to more people. The re-emergence of Iddo There has been a refreshed attention to Iddo island since the closure took effect. The district, in Lagos Mainland LGA of Lagos, is connected to Lagos Island by the Eko bridge and the Carter bridge. The district, back in the days was the hub for interstate travel, water transportation, and home to the Lagos Railway Terminus. So Iddo is back into the reckoning as a key connect for Lagos Commuters, especially as it provides a smooth alternative to the closed bridge for commuters heading to-and-fro the Lagos Island. Maintain work from home mode: According to the Nigeria Communication Commission, Nigeria’s internet usage has spiked exponentially with the months of the pandemic, jumping from 126 million subscribers in December 2019 to over 140 million subscribers as of May 2020. The truth is that more Nigerians are communicating, interacting, and doing businesses online than ever before. It is the new normal that has been foisted by the extreme socio-economic restriction measures deployed to flatten the growing pandemic curve. Consequently, more businesses have activated the work-from-home model for their operation by moving their business online and on digital spaces. While many are yearning to return to the old order, the Third Mainland situation is perhaps a crucial reason to maintain the status quo. It is duly advised that the best way to save oneself from the current traffic brouhaha is to stay at home and work. Be prepared There is a need to understand that these alternatives are not entirely foolproof. The increase in the use of the waterways will open it to many interruptions; taking the Iddo alternative course does not guarantee you will not encounter traffic on the route, and working from home opens your business to the increasing global cyber-based attacks and fraud incidences. The only way to deal with these is to prepare and have a smart plan to deal with incidental spillovers. It will help if you are prepared for whatever could go wrong while using any of the alternatives mentioned above. This is where insurance comes in.  The best way to prepare for any of the unfortunate events – even if remotely unlikely- is to have an insurance policy. Cyber insurance will protect your business from all the risk associated with using the internet; the right motor insurance, a third party or comprehensive plan, will save you from incurring cost from traffic-related incidence, attack, or accident. Similarly, life insurance will ensure you and your loved ones are well compensated in the event the other side of life, happens and helping you to leave a good Legacy behind no matter your age or time the unexpected happens. Leadway Assurance, Nigeria’s foremost insurer with over five decades of unshaken reputation in providing insurance protection to individuals and businesses, has a variety of innovative insurance products that can help you sail through these confusing times. Preparing for unexpected events could be a smart move but choosing the right partner to prepare you for these events is the smartest choice. For additional information on the Leadway Assurance product offerings, you can call their professional advisors via our virtual communication channels – 08129997042, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from an experienced insurance advisor by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me