As a merchant, business individual, or a consumer of products. You will need to rely on your credit card and debit card for your transactions. But the issue we have currently, there is an increase in the popularity of these cards. With this increased numbers, there is an increased risk of fraud cases. This has been troublesome for merchants and business men. It affects the business, making them lose profits. Hence, there is an increased security measure. This measure is in place to protect the concerned parties. There is a set of numbers found on your Credit or Debit card. This set of numbers are usually the first four to six digits found on your card. They make up the Bank Identification Number. It is usually used for identifying issuing institution or bank. What Is a Bank Identification Number? BIN is an abbreviation for Bank Identification Number. It is usually the 6-digit numbers of your debit or credit card number. Others call it your IIN, Issuer Identification Number. The reason for the creation of BIN is map out malpractices like fraud. Business merchants are usually the ones who enjoy the advantage of BIN. As they can avoid different financial crimes and malpractices. Merchants can use BIN to fish out buyers who are trying to do a fake financial transaction. The idea of BIN numbering system is a good one. It assists in identification of any potential identity theft and security breaches. Created by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Bank Identification Number, developed by the ANSI (American National Standards Institute). And IOS (International Organization for Standardization). The Bank Identification Number, is a tool that works as a card identifier. Usually found on debit and credit cards. It is otherwise known as Issuer Identification Number (IIN). Being that, not only banks issue credit cards, other institutions does so. The BIN plays a very important role with helping merchants. It does so by matching transactions details to the card’s issuer. BIN or IIN can be found on other cards. Cards like stored value cards, electronic gift cards and others. Issuer Identification Number/ Bank Identification Number is a tool. That provides accurate information about credit or debit cards. Information like card type, card brand, issuer’s industry, details about the owner. Each issuing institution have its own special Issuer Identification Number/Bank Identification Number. Bank Identification Number is very important to merchants as it can avoid fraud. Except you are ignorant merchant, then you will lose profits. Bank Identification Number is a very important knowledge needed by merchants. How Do You Look at a Bank Identification Number? For you to get this section of the article. You will need to take a closer look at your credit card. Do you have your credit card with you? Let’s move on then. At first glance, the numbers you might seem random. But they are not as you expect. The first 4-6digits that you can see are very important. They are your Issuer Identification Number or Bank Identification Number. With the first number on the credit card called MII (Major Industry Identifier). This number can range from 0 to 9. With each digit having a corresponding category. Which usually differs from other numbers. Example the number 0 falls under the TC/ISO 68 assignment. While the number 8 falls under the category of healthcare and telecommunications card. After the first digit, the next three to five have a significance. They are digits that usually determine what issuing party the BIN falls under. The rest of the digits found on the card, that doesn’t fall under the Bank Identification Number. These numbers are either the Individual account Identification number. While the last number on the credit card is called the Luhn Check Digit. It is a single check number generated using Luhn Algorithm. This is used for verification of credit card numbers. You can experience it with this complete BIN Generator App. How Does Bank Identification Number Work ? Issuer Identification Number/ Bank Identification Number is a tool that provides information. Not only information, it provides security against fraud and authorization. Merchants and Business owners make use of BIN. They use it for evaluation and assessment of card-based transactions. Issuer Identification Number/ Bank Identification Number allows users to verify.  And identify important transaction details.  They can verify information details like; phone number, issuing bank address, issuing bank name and others. The Bank Identification Number helps to facilitate a transaction, making it faster. It also allows merchants and business individuals to accept varying forms of payments. The Bank Identification Number works in a unique way. It does so by identifying the issuer that accepts the transaction’s authorization request. It allows merchants and business individual. To determine some specific information about an account. Information like the amount of funds present in the account. Which helps to facilitate the approval or rejection of a transaction. All these seems to happen in the background during the transaction. Another important information you should know. The credit card processing system might not perform well. Without the Issuer Identification Number/ Bank Identification Number. Good news, as a merchant you can check BIN code of a bank. Just by visiting an online database, that contains that information. Information such as the following. Bank Network, Issuing Bank, Type, Credit card brand and other necessary information. How Do Bank Identification Numbers Fight Fraud? What Are the Other Uses of the Bank Identification Number? In conclusion With this information, merchants should get an idea of what Bank Identification Number. With Bank Identification Number, you can avoid a whole lot. As a merchant and a business individual, you can’t be scammed or defrauded of your money. Your business will be secure and your profits will remain. The information, will even attract more customers to your business. Thank you for reading. Author: Tadas Ukrinas UAB Potissimus 