LEKE BAIYEWU, TOBI AWORINDE and OLUFEMI OLANIYI THE Secretary-General of the Yoruba Council of Elders, Dr Kunle Olajide, has said the inability of the political leadership of the country to look inward for ways to generate revenue is responsible for plunging Nigeria into huge debts. Olajide said this in an interview with our correspondent in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, on Saturday. There have been public outcries over the debt profile of the nation since the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), took over in 2015. Just in March 2020, the Senate approved Buhari’s plan to borrow $23.7bn from the Islamic Development Bank; African Development Bank; the World Bank and creditors in China, Japan and Germany. The nation is currently using more than half of its revenue to service debts and the Federal Government was recently accused of agreeing to cede Nigeria to China as collateral for loans. Condemning the FG’s penchant for borrowing, Olajide said the present regime, like the previous administration before it, had no reputation for fund management including loans and should stop borrowing. He said, “This is not healthy for our economy. For obvious reasons that you and I know, our government, including the present one, has no reputation for fund management. In the last six or nine months, we have had sufficient revelations in the National Assembly from ministries, departments and agencies; there is no visible ways of tracing how funds allocated to these MDAs are spent.” “If you look through the country, you will see that we have abundant natural resources that can be tapped to raise any amount that we require to build infrastructure and put some other things in place. We have bitumen, gold and many others. We have fertile land to grow different crops, process them and through that we can feed the whole of Africa. Even the crude oil, we are not adding value to it.” “Most of our political leadership elite are both mentally and physically indolent. They only know how to borrow, they cannot think of any other way. The previous administrations were also guilty of this. Some of the loans even got hijacked before they got here.” Olajide said he still believed restructuring had the capacity to address most of the problems facing the country. The Chairman of the Foundation for Economic Research and Training, Prof Akpan Ekpo, also lamented that Nigeria was borrowing more than the capacity of its economy. Ekpo, a former Director General of the West African Institute for Financial and Economic Management, in an interview with Sunday PUNCH, faulted the Federal Government for claiming that the debts were still within the threshold. However, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on Saturday, said there was “nothing bad” in the Federal Government taking loans from foreign entities, as long as the funds are used for developmental projects as opposed to being misappropriated. Mohammed, according to a statement by his media aide, Segun Adeyemi, stated that Nigeria was utilising the funds it borrowed from China and elsewhere for infrastructural development, to create jobs and provide the basis for economic development. The minister addressed journalists at the construction site of the Ibadan Train Station, after a joint inspection of the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge Rail Project alongside the Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi. He said, “Rather than arguing with critics, we opted to allow you (journalists) — the ears and eyes of Nigerians — to come and see for yourselves what we are doing with the money we are borrowing. “We didn’t borrow money for services or overhead expenditure. We borrowed money for capital projects: rail, roads, bridges, power — infrastructure, generally.” The statement quoted Amaechi as saying $1.6bn was being expended on the rail line and the stations, with $200m to 300m counterpart funds from the Federal Government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 