Dayo Ojerinde The Director-General of the National Agency for Foods and Drugs Administration and Control, Prof Mojisola Adeyeye, has said the interpretation of the Act that established the agency and the Standards Organisation of Nigeria was responsible for the clash of interests between the two agencies. Adeyeye, at a virtual briefing on Tuesday, said NAFDAC would continue to dialogue with sister agencies to clarify overlapping roles where they exist. She said, “SON was created with a mandate just like NAFDAC, but the problem causing overlapping function is that in SON’s mandate, they can standardise products; NAFDAC, on the other hand, has seven products it regulates which includes drugs, foods, medical devices, beverages, packaged water, chemicals, and so on. The way SON operates, they are in charge of products and those products included NAFDAC regulated products and that has been the problem between the two agencies. The problem is partly due to the interpretation of the Acts of the two agencies. “We have met many times; we’ve talked because there was a study in 2018 where the World Bank concluded that part of the reason trade is not progressing well in Nigeria is because of the conflict of interest between NAFDAC and SON. Things have improved to some extent, but that conflict is still there.” Adeyeye added that the agency was better than the way she met it in 2017 when she assumed office as the NAFDAC DG. “When I resumed office as the DG, about 80 per cent of the equipment in the agency’s laboratories were not functioning; directors have no laptops to work with, incessant industrial actions and lack of utility vehicles were the many problems facing the agency. “It was like being thrown into an ocean of problems, so, I started digging into why the agency got into such debt and how to get out of it. For 30 years as a professor, my life has been in the laboratory. “I was shocked when I saw that 80 per cent of the equipment in the NAFDAC laboratories were not functioning. “And everything the agency does require laboratory tests – from water to drugs, food products, chemicals and others. We decided to review and overhaul our operations by adopting quality management system which enables us to upgrade the ICT system to ensure online documentation, computerised transactions, e-registration and e-certification of food and drug products,” she said. The NAFDAC DG said the sum of N7 bn was generated in 2017; while N2.5 bn and N3.1 bn were generated from the agency’s IGR windows in 2018 and 2019 respectively. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 