Ade Adesomoju, Abuja A former acting Managing Director of Unity Bank, Mr Rislanudeed Muhammed, on Thursday said  the $2.267m he received from a former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Bello Adoke (SAN), did not constitute proceeds of any criminal offence. Muhammed, currently  with the Bank of Industry, said this as the second prosecution witness in the 14 amended counts of money laundering instituted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission against Adoke and his co-defendant, Aliyu Abubakar. In count nine of the charges, the EFCC had alleged that Adoke, sometimes in 2013 in Abuja, “made a cash payment of $2,267,400 to Risslanudeen Muhammed” and thereby  “committed an offence contrary to the combined effect of section 16(1)(d) and of section 19 (a) of the Money  Laundering Prohibition Act, 2011 (as amended) and punishable under section 16(2)(b) of the same Act.” Testifying on Thursday, Muhammed who was led in evidence by the EFCC’s lawyer, Bala Sanga, said he collected the total sum of $2,267,400 from Adoke as repayment of the N300m loan granted the former minister by Unity Bank. He said although the loan had been granted Adoke before he became the acting Managing Director of the bank, he took it upon himself to pressure the former minister, whom he said was his personal friend to offset the loan. He said, “That is not good for him or his image, especially for the position he was holding at that time.  I confronted him and I told him to pay. He said after much pressure, the former minister called him to his house sometime in 2013. “He gave me $2,267,400 from the boot of his car.” But under cross-examination by Adoke’s lawyer, Chief Kanu Agabi (SAN), the witness said the money could not have been proceeds of crime. When asked if he was aware that if proceeds of any transactions established to have breached money laundering law would be confiscated, he answered in the affirmative. But when asked if the $2.2m he received from Adoke was available for confiscation, the witness responded in the negative. “The reason it is not available for confiscation is because it is not the proceeds from crime. I have no reason to believe that the money is a proceed of a crime,” he said. Justice Ekwo adjourned the case till September 7 for further cross-examination of the witness by the defence. Earlier, the prosecution had presented an official of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Financial Market Department, Clement Osagie, as the first prosecution witness. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 