There is a growing, palpable fear among doctors and nurses in the country that disclosing their health conditions to the authorities could lead to stigma and possible termination of employment. Recent findings by PUNCH Healthwise revealed that such concern cuts across different disciplines in the health sector, as most respondents told our correspondent that they would rather endure the mental torture that comes with the job rather than seek help and get stigmatised. Nurse Bimpe (other name withheld), who works in one of the primary health centres in Lagos confided in our correspondent that she developed a chronic mental illness on the job in March 2019 after the death of her husband. “It was a gruelling and very challenging moment for me. There were so many promises of financial assistance from my brothers-in-law and some of my late husband’s friends leading up to the burial. “But months after his burial, those promises materialised into nothing. The sole burden of raising three children and running shifts at my PHC started taking a toll on me. “At a point, my salary couldn’t sustain us anymore and I had to borrow continuously from our cooperative. I knew I was drowning but I couldn’t confide in anybody,” she said. Bimpe disclosed that her colleagues sometimes covered up for her anytime she broke down and couldn’t make it to work. “I appreciated their efforts in those trying moments. They gave me money from time to time and offered some level of counselling. It was even one of them that alerted my mother in Osun State about my state of depression. They were so afraid I could resort to something bad when left alone,” she said. The nurse remarked that her condition got better months after her mother’s arrival in Lagos, adding that the older woman took charge of her domestic activities while she concentrated more on her responsibilities at the health centre. On why she did not inform the hospital management board, Bimpe reiterated that she was afraid, just like her other colleagues, that such action could yield one possible result from the Ministry of Health – sack. No depressed medical worker wants name submitted to government A Consultant Psychiatrist at the Federal Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Dr. Dapo Adegbaju told our correspondent that depression and suicide ideation is not uncommon among health workers. “People tend to look at us as if we are immune to problems affecting other members of society. It is not true. Everybody has a problem. I have also passed through a similarly tough time at one point or the other. “You know there is this problem of always trying to strike a balance between work and domestic activities. It is a challenging world, I must admit. “As health workers, we tend to bury our problems to attend to people’s own because they are expecting you to perform miracles for them. We can be exposed to the same environment, but react differently,” he said. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 