Angela Onwuzoo Fumigation experts have called for caution over the involvement of quacks in fumigation activities in Lagos, warning that many of them are using chemicals that are very harmful to health to fumigate. The experts raised the alarm, as schools, churches and mosques begin reopening in Lagos, after over four months of closure as a result of COVID-19 lockdown The experts, Mr. Akin Jemiriye and Hameed Olugbode, said many charlatans have taken over the business of fumigation, noting that some of them are using dangerous insecticides and other inappropriate substances to decontaminate and fumigate the environment. The experts stated that besides fumigating with dangerous chemicals, the manner in which the quacks carry out their enterprise is totally out of line with fumigation protocols and approved standards. They warned that if the Lagos State Government fails to check the indiscriminate fumigation currently ongoing in the state and allow professionals take over the exercise, many people would sooner or later come down with serious health conditions that could be worse than COVID-19. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise in an exclusive interview, Mr. Jemiriye stated that there is no proper coordination of the fumigation activities going on in Lagos, noting that people are being unduly exposed to harmful chemicals that are dangerous to health. Jemiriye explained, “The government is doing their own and school owners are doing their own; the churches and mosques are also doing their own. “One cannot say they are using standard chemicals approved by the World Health Organisation. Everybody is just doing his or her thing. Fumigation entails professionalism. “Many quacks are in the profession claiming to be doing fumigation. Fumigation is specific and specific chemicals are used for fumigation. “Chemical for fumigation of farmland is different from chemical for fumigation of where people are domiciled. Exposure to chemicals during fumigation is dangerous to health. “Most of the fumigation currently ongoing are not done by experts and, therefore, poses a health risk and also defeats its purpose. To continue reading this story, go to: https//healthwise.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  