Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari and other West African leaders on Friday resolved that the process of restoring democracy to Mali must be completed within 12 months. They also told the military junta in the West African country that the transition government must be led by civilians. The decisions were reached at the third extraordinary summit of ECOWAS Heads of State and Governments on the socio-political crisis in Mali. Buhari participated in the virtual meeting from the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in a statement titled “Mali can’t afford to stand alone, says President Buhari, backs 12 months set by ECOWAS for return to democratic order,” said Buhari joined his colleagues in charging the military junta in Mali to set an acceptable timetable for return to democratic government, adding that the country cannot afford to stand alone in the sub-region. He quoted the President as saying that from the briefings presented by the Special Envoy, former President Goodluck Jonathan, it was clear that the regional body’s engagements with the new military leadership in Mali had yet to achieve the desired results in several key areas. He quoted Buhari as saying, “I am, however, personally happy to hear of the release from detention of the former President of Mali, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who is reported to be in good condition. “The disposition of the new leadership to free the remaining senior officials is noted as this should contribute to the renewed sense of belonging to the Malian people. “With regard to other areas being negotiated, Nigeria believes that the people of Mali and the military leaders need to appreciate the fragility of their country and the imminent danger which it poses to the citizens of Mali as well as the ECOWAS sub-region.” The President was further reported to have said that the military leadership should be flexible in negotiations by putting the interest of all Malians and the harmony of the sub-region into consideration. Buhari also emphasised the need for Mali’s Constitutional Court to work hand in hand with all the Malian stakeholders to ensure an early and hitch-free return to a democratic government through free, fair and inclusive election. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 