Nike Popoola The Pension Funds Administrators have invested N55.25bn under the Contributory Pension Scheme in infrastructure as of the end of May, latest statistics from the National Pension Commission has revealed. The commission stated this in its report titled ‘Summary of pension fund assets as at 31 May, 2020’ obtained by our correspondent on Monday. According to the statistics, the total assets under management by the operators stood at N10.79tn in the period under review. The commission had stated in its last amended investment regulation the requirements to invest the funds in line with the provisions of Pension Reform Act, 2014. It stated that the purpose of the regulation was to provide uniform rules and standards for the investment of pension fund assets. In the regulation, Pension Fund Custodians must only take written instructions from licensed PFAs with respect to the PFAs investment and management of pension fund assets held in the custody of the PFCs on behalf of the contributors. It stated that the PFCs, in discharging their contractual functions to PFAs, must not contract out the custody of pension fund assets to third parties except for allowable investments made outside Nigeria. “The PFC shall obtain prior approval from the commission before engaging a global custodian for such allowable foreign investments,” it stated. According to the regulation, the PFAs, in discharging their contractual functions to contributors, must not contract out the investment/management of pension fund assets to third parties except for open/close-end/hybrid funds and specialist investment funds allowed by this regulation. PenCom stated that the PFAs must maintain a multi-fund structure as provided in the regulation to govern the investment of pension fund assets of RSA Funds. It stated, “In addition to the requirements of other guidelines issued by the commission on corporate governance, ethics and business practices, each PFA shall establish an investment strategy committee as well as a risk management committee, in compliance with section 78 of the Pension Reform Act, 2014. “The investment strategy committee, in addition to other functions specified in the Act, shall formulate internal investment strategies to enable compliance with this regulation, taking into cognisance the macro-economic environment as well as the investment objectives and risk profile of the respective PFA Funds.” It also stated that the internal investment strategies must be approved by the PFA in a formal board meeting at least once every year or as frequently as changes occur in the macroeconomic environment that may affect pension fund assets. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  