Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives on Friday grilled heads of ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government, decrying that several of them under-remitted their revenues to the Federation Account. The MDAs were grilled at the second day of the five-day interactive session on the 2021-2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper. The event was organised by the House of Representatives’ Joint Committee on Finance; Appropriation; National Planning and Economic Development; and Aids, Loans and Debt Management. They include Corporate Affairs Commission, Pharmacists Council of Nigeria, National Hospital Abuja, National Electric Regulatory Commission, among others. The Director of Budget, Planning, Research and Statistics, CAC, Dr Gado Shehu, said the commission had an approved revenue budget of N15.770bn in 2019 while the budgetary performance was N12.675bn. He also said the commission remitted N100m. Chairman of the committee, Mr James Faleke, who expressed shock over the disclosure, asked why CAC remitted only N100m after getting over N12bn. “Even the N100m that you remitted, it was the committee that forced you to remit it, I remember.” Shehu further said the CAC in 2018 had a budget of N16.621bn, realised N11bn but remitted zero revenue. He said, “For 2018, we have not remitted because there was…” He was asked to save his explanation and he admitted non-remittance for the year. In 2020, the director said the approved revenue budget is N18bn while the CAC had by June realised N8.3bn. “By June, because the Federal Government has started direct deduction from our revenue, they have deducted N69m. Twenty-five per cent of whatever drops into our account is deducted,” he said. Faleke, however, asked if N69m is 25 per cent of N8.3bn, stating that it is less than 1 per cent. Speaking on the proposal by the CAC for 2021, Shehu pegged the total projected revenue at N19.425bn. He, however, could not state the amount the commission plans to remit. Faleke, however, said, “The amount that will be deducted from your account directly, without recourse to you in 2021 is N7.77bn. Write it down. In 2022, the amount that will be deducted from your account is N7.925bn. In 2023, by the grace of God, God sparing our lives, the amount that will be deducted from your account is N8bn.” The lawmaker added, “The Corporate Affairs Commission should be put on revenue status enquiry, to determine why there was no remittance between 2018…in fact, a five-year statutory enquiry.” After announcing a sub-committee to carry out the enquiry, Faleke said, “In line with the Budget Office (of the Federation), we want to know where our money went, how they spent that money, who and who benefitted from that money rather than remit it to the Federation Account. The report should be submitted to us in one week.” The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria also appeared before the committee, where the lawmakers grilled its Head of Department, Accounts, Mr Emmanuel Ikechukwu. The panel criticised the plan by the PCN to spend more than 100 per cent of the revenue the council plans to generate. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com