Kayode Oyero The Presidency on Friday listed 35 policies, programmes and projects as the second-term achievements of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Buhari, who won his reelection in 2019 after defeating opposition Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate, Atiku Abubakar, with about four million votes in the February 23 poll, had on August 21 of the same year inaugurated his second-term cabinet. The Presidency in a statement via its Twitter handle, @NGRPresident, on Friday, listed, amongst other accomplishments, the “presidential assent to a landmark Bill amending the Companies and Allied Matters Act.” Buhari had on August 7 signed into law, the Companies and Allied Matters Bill, 2020. The bill which has been passed by the National Assembly replaced the 1990 CAMA. The controversial law has been rejected by the Christian Association of Nigeria which described as “satanic”, section 839 (1) and (2) of the law that empowers the supervising minister “to suspend trustees of an association (in this case, the church) and appoint the interim managers to manage the affairs of the association for some given reasons.” Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party has criticised the “35 second-term achievements” of the President. Commenting on Friday evening on Channels Television’s programme, Politics Today, Osita Chidoka, an adviser to the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, said the creation of new ministries should not be tagged as an achievement. Chidoka, a former Minister of Aviation, said, “I was surprised that the government released a list of 35 achievements this year because a year ago or two years ago, they released 64 achievements. So, even by their quantum of achievements, the government has declined in productivity. “But when you look at the quality of the achievements, the GDP of this country has fallen from N520bn in 2018 to N350bn… So, everybody is poorer in this government.” “On the economy, Nigeria’s debt has risen to about N36tn. It has grown three times to what it was in 2015. It has grown from about N12tn, meaning that 90 per cent of our revenue is actually going into debt servicing. So, I don’t know how that can be seen as an achievement.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 