Deji Lambo A homeless orphan has accused her stepfather, identified simply as Okanla, of having carnal knowledge of her while she lived with him in the Itori area of Abeokuta, Ogun State. The victim also claimed that hoodlums in Kara, in the Obafemi Owode area of the state, took turns to gang-rape her. PUNCH Metro gathered that the orphan on Monday boarded a bus and was on her way to the Itori area when she made the revelations to fellow passengers. One of the passengers was said to have filmed the 11-year-old as she narrated her ordeal. In the footage, which was posted by @StopRaping and @Instablog9ja, the victim said she became homeless after the death of her parents. She said, “When I was in Kara, some boys had sex with me. They were like two or three in number. They all had sex with me and while they were having sex with me, I felt the urge to urinate and they gave me the chance. But when I returned, I was told that my private parts were wider than my age. “My stepfather also used to have sex with me. My mum is dead and I don’t know my dad. But when I asked my mum about him, she said he was dead and I was taken to the village to see where he was buried. My stepfather, who used to have sex with me, lives in Itori, Abeokuta. His name is Okanla. “I am going to Itori and when I get to the market around the area, I will find a place to sleep till the following day and move on from there.” The victim’s statements reportedly prompted some of the passengers to take her to the Sango Police Station for help and investigation into her allegations. The situation, however, took another dimension when the poster of the footage accused a female officer of slapping and chasing the victim away from the police station after hearing her story, adding that they were threatened to delete the video. “On getting to the police station, while explaining the situation to the officers, one of the female officers slapped the girl twice, then told her to go away. The police officers in Sango could not help this young orphan, even after hearing her story. This young girl, however, continued on her journey to God knows where. “Please note that the police in Sango Police Station threatened us to delete the video and not post it, that they’d trace us. I had to create a burner so as to post this video. All of this happened yesterday, August 10, 2020…” he stated. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said, “If they have gone to the Sango Police Station where we have ACP Sunday Agbonika as the Area Commander, there is no way they will make an official report on such that he will not take it upon himself because he is a professional that has been lecturing and training people on gender-based violence and violation of the girl child right. “Whoever that can locate the girl should bring her forward. If those who brought her to the station have evidence, they should show us, if they know the policewoman they claimed to have met, they should come forward with their evidence so we can get the person and sanction her because that is not our character. It is the duty of the police to protect life and property.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     