Temiloluwa O’Peters The National Biotechnology Development Agency has vowed to reverse the country’s heavy dependence on imported food. The acting Director-General/Chief Executive Officer, NABDA, Prof Alex Akpa, made the vow at an interactive session with journalists in Lagos on Friday. According to him, Nigeria in the last decade has been a leading importer of finished food products coming from countries that have long deployed biotechnology tools such as genetic modification in their agriculture, unknown to many Nigerians. Akpa said Nigeria could not continue to import food and other staples when it had over 15 agricultural research institutes that have mandates to scientifically improve crops. He said that no nation had been able to develop without integrating science and technology into its development agenda, adding that Nigeria must adjust to this reality. The NABDA boss said, “Neither America nor the United Kingdom will come here to address challenges facing our cotton, cassava or beans for us; we have to do it ourselves. Africa must rise up to address her challenges. “COVID-19 has taught us many lessons, one of which is to look inwards and do things for ourselves so as to save our continent. It is high time we stopped importing data but begin to generate our own data to run our systems well.” He told the media to beware of misleading information by arm-chair critics telling people to avoid genetically modified foods to instill fear in farmers and ensure the populace remained food insecure, poor and backward. “All the advanced countries of the world today have been eating genetically modified foods for over two decades and there has not been any report of adverse impact on health or environment,” he said. Akpa said for the research institutes to fulfill their mandates and contribute meaningfully to the nation’s quest for self-sufficiency in food production, they needed protection from anti-technology lobbyists. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 