Dele Ogunyemi, Warri Delta State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Muhammed Hafiz Inuwa, has debunked reports making the rounds that police personnel shot dead a protesting youth in The Polytechnic community of Ozoro in Isoko Local Government Area on Monday. Rather the CP stated that it was a bullet from one of the armed protesters that killed the said youth. Speaking with journalists in Warri in a telephone conversation, the Commissioner of Police insisted that it was a protest of ‘Yahoo Boys’ and not just aggrieved youths as it has been widely reported. “We will not relent in our efforts to deal with them,” he said, just as he called on youths in the area to shun crime and criminality. The CP spoke further, “As long as they continue to commit the crime, we will not relent in our efforts to deal with them and bring them to book.” “The protest was spearheaded by ‘Yahoo Boys’ who feel that they are above the law and should be allowed to do what they like. READ ALSO: Boko Haram attack on Zulum, proof we’re all vulnerable -Govs “But, I have spoken to the Chairman of Isoko Local Government Area, and what he told me is that the protesters are ‘Yahoo Boys’. “Also, the DPO told me that it was not the bullet of the police that killed the youth. “The police in Delta is committed to fighting crime and criminality. I don’t understand how criminals will get so bold to protest because police are arresting them. “These are ‘Yahoo Boys’ who think they are above the law and unfortunately the community is giving them some sort of support. Otherwise, how will they say they want to protest against the government and that they must go about doing their criminal activities without been checked? “The information I got was that the ‘Yahoo Boys’ were firing and as they were firing they shot one of their people who joined forces with them against the police. “They were still regrouping and the police will not relent in their efforts to effect their arrest and we must flush them out of that place”. The PUNCH reports that pandemonium erupted in Ozoro on Monday morning and a protesting youth was shot dead.