Sunday Aborisade, Abuja Senators from Ogun and Ondo states will work out an arrangement to ensure an early realisation of the  multi-billion dollar Olokola Deep Seaport and Free Trade Zone Project. A member of the Senate Committee on Industry, Trade and Investment, Senator Tolu Odebiyi, disclosed this in an interview with our correspondent on Wednesday, in Abuja. He lamented that since the administration of former president Olusegun Obasanjo initiated the project, successive governments had not exhibited significant commitment to ensure its realisation. The management of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Ogun State Government officials and some technical partners from the Abu Dhabi ports, held a meeting early last year with a view to reviving the project. But Odebiyi, who is also the senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District, said his colleagues from the affected  states would soon perfect a synergy with a view to ensuring the early actualisation of the project. He said, “Olokola project was designed to be the deepest sea port in the country but it never materialised. “The refinery that was supposed to be established there which did not work out is what we now have in Lagos. “We, senators from Ogun and Ondo, are working round the clock now to see how we can get Olokola back to the front burner and how we can convince the Federal Government to give the go-ahead for its take off. “The Federal Government really does not need to be committed financially. “All it needs to do is give the go-ahead and the investors would come and set machinery in motion for the realisation of the project. “It is something that I am passionate about and committed and I’m going to work with Senator Ibikunle Amosun and our colleagues from Ondo State to see how we can bring Olokola back to the forefront.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com