Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency on Sunday announced that it had created nine new Performance Based Navigation Area Navigation 10 regional routes across the nation’s airspace. It said the move was in accordance with plans to resume international flight operations across the country The Managing Director, NAMA, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, disclosed this in a statement issued by the agency titled ‘NAMA creates new PBN regional routes’. He outlined the newly created PBN routes to include UQ300, connecting Lagos to the Central African Republic; and UY604, linking Abuja, Port Harcourt to Southern Africa. Others include UQ181, connecting East and Central Africa to Europe through Nigerian airspace; and UQ400, connecting Southern Africa to North Africa through Nigeria to Europe. Also created are UQ324, from Adis Ababa to Niamey through Nigeria; UY333, from Tunisia/Algeria to Lagos; UY87, from East and Central Africa through Nigeria to Accra and Abidjan. The remaining PBN are UY57, from East and Central Africa through Nigeria coastal airspace to Cotonou, Lome and Abidjan as well as UQ200, connecting Yaonde to Lagos. Akinkuotu further disclosed that apart from the PBN routes, NAMA had also created six new flight-plannable direct routes. He was quoted in the statement as saying, “The flight-plannable direct routes are to be used by compliant airlines’ flight management systems and would avail them the opportunity of flight planning and routing within the Nigerian airspace. “This will be from an entry point direct to an exit point without recourse to existing air traffic service route network.” Akinkuotu explained that the agency embarked on the initiative to enhance regional connectivity, reduce flight time as well as fuel consumption for airlines. He said the move would also reduce carbon dioxide emission into the environment, cut down cost to operators, decrease pilot workload and enhance airspace capacity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 