Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency on Thursday announced that it had commenced palliative maintenance repairs on some major roads across the country. Speaking during an inspection of work on the Abuja-Keffi road, the Director of Operations, FERMA, Godson Amos, told journalists that the agency had commenced work on all alternative routes to the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos, He noted that work was also ongoing on some sections of the Lokoja-Abuja road, just as workers of FERMA were seen fixing the Abuja-Keffi road. Amos said, “Nationwide, we are everywhere. Our people are now working, especially at this time when we have flood-related issues; we are working seriously to ensure that no road is cut off. “For specifics, there is a partial closure of the Third Mainland Bridge, and so all the alternative routes are being taken care of now. The roads are being patched, de-silted and we have free flow of traffic on some of those roads. He added, “This is a continuous process and it is something we are doing across the country.” Explaining what the agency was doing on the Abuja-Keffi road, Amos described it as palliative maintenance measure to ensure that the complaints of the public on multiple cracks and surface failure on the road were addressed. “We mobilised our men to carry out palliative maintenance activities to seal the surface failures on the road. We will ensure that all the bad spot on this alignment are taken care of,” he said. He said the agency had ensured that it allowed the free flow of traffic on a particular lane on most of the roads being fixed in order not to ground vehicular movement completely. Amos stated that in October/November this year, FERMA would come up with a more comprehensive maintenance measure for the Abuja-Keffi expressway and other major roads across the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 