Ex-Enugu Rangers star Stanley Okoronkwo played for the Flying Antelopes in the 1970s. He tells RAPHAEL EDE about the glory days of the club, their horrifying moment in Dakar on the way to winning their first continental title in 1977 and more in this interview You and your teammates have retired for a very long time now. Are you happy with the state of ex-Rangers stars? No. I am not happy with the state of ex-Rangers players. A lot of us left football doing nothing, some quit football and are just living like that. That is why we remain grateful to former Governor Peter Obi. I think any serious ex-Ranger will remember Obi because at a time he invited some of us – very old Rangers guys, I am talking about my generation. If there was anything happening in Anambra, he gave us invitation and we are well looked after. At some point, he paid us stipends, it was more than $1m. So, what have you been doing after retirement? It’s been tough trying to work out something. I have been doing small businesses to keep myself and my family. In the 1970s, a typical game between Rangers and IICC was always a delight. What were your experiences playing against the Oluyole Warriors? A typical game between Rangers and IICC then was like a war; it was entertaining but it was war – war because of the tribe –  the Yoruba and the Igbo. So, each time Rangers and Shooting were playing at the National Stadium, Lagos, the arena would be filled by 10am, the tartan tracks were jam-packed  and the people outside the mainbowl were more than those inside. So, that was how the scenario against our Ibadan brothers looked like then. Fans would trade insults, there would be drumming, singing and dancing, but we (players) just go inside the pitch and do our business and come out. Rangers lost the final of the African Cup of Champions Clubs to Guinea’s Hafia FC in 1975 but international success finally came when the squad beat Canon Yaounde 5-2 on aggregate to win the CAF Cup Winners Cup in 1977. How tough was the two-legged final encounter? It was very tough against Canon of Cameroon. We won the first leg 4-1 in Enugu. On the day of the return leg fixture, there was downpour and the match was postponed. I think we came back (to Nigeria) and went back (to Cameroon) the next day. There was one guy, may his soul rest in peace, Chris Nwachukwu Onyekwere, who came from the academy and was popularly known as ‘Igariga.’ He was in that game and helped us win the match in Cameroon, as well as the cup there. It was a very tough match against established players, I mean established football stars in Africa. Some of them had played in Europe; I’m not saying we were not established, we had very established guys in our side too, but we didn’t have players who had played professionally abroad, and we were able to subdue them; we subdued a lot of countries in Africa and any time they heard about us, they were scared. I’m talking about teams from Egypt, Algeria and other African countries. During my time, our exposure to international or professional football came late, otherwise a bunch of us would have played professional football abroad at that time too. The semi-final clash against IICC is regarded as one of the greatest club football matches played in Africa. Can you tell us how Rangers managed to win to get final? The encounter was won on penalty shootout. The first leg was in Lagos, and once it’s a match between Rangers and IICC it’s like warfare, and this was a continental match. So, it was more than war to the people. That match did not end in Lagos because of the crowd, every part of the stadium and environs were crowded. What happened was that Shehu Musa Yar’Adua, who was second-in-command in government at the time, moved the match to Kaduna, where the final leg was played and we defeated IICC 3-1. In the quarter-final, three Rangers players were reportedly stabbed by Senegalese fans after the team beat ASF Police 2-1 in Dakar. Can you recall that incident? They came here (Nigeria) and had a draw with us; everybody believed it was all over. When we went back there, we beat them and they descended on us. The fans descended on about 16 players right there in the stadium. Christian Chukwu was beaten, taken outside the stadium after the match; some of us ran into a toilet. Nnamdi Anyafo – that was his first match for Rangers– was so tired; we all got ourselves packed in that toilet. A soldier blocked the entrance to the toilet to save us from the irate fans; Chukwu was taken away and had the hell beaten out of him, John Uwanaka was stabbed on the head – it was not three players that were stabbed, but a lot of us were beaten. The soldiers brought two armoured personnel carriers to take us to our hotel. We jumped into it, and immediately we got to the hotel, everyone picked their stuff, got back into the vehicle, which took us straight to the house of the Nigerian Ambassador to Senegal. Our ambassador then called the Head of State, General Olusegun Obasanjo, and he sent an aircraft immediately to Senegal that night to pick us. We didn’t even take our bath after the game. We were in our ambassador’s place when the aircraft landed and we were driven straight to the airport that evening. That’s how we came back after that match. We came back that same day to Nigeria and the country protested strongly to CAF. I think Senegal was banned for one or two years for that. Then Rangers captain Christian Chukwu was seen as the driving force behind the side. What sort of a leader was he? He was a good leader on and off the pitch. He listened, and that made him a good leader. On the field of play, he gave you the needed encouragement. All that made him great, he was ready to lend a helping hand to anyone of us who had issues. What are your most memorable matches? We were almost gone against Green Buffalos in Zambia in the quarter-finals of the African Cup of Champions Clubs in 1975, but by the grace of God, I rescued Rangers and we won 4-3 on aggregate. That was one of my most memorable matches. I scored the goal that moved us to the next stage of the competition. I had so many memorable moments, but this particular game stood out. In terms of laurels, winning the Challenge Cup (now FA Cup), national league and the sports festival were also memorable moments. Can you recall the toughest clubs you played against? One of the toughest teams that I played against was Hafia of Guinea. We met them in the 1975 African Cup finals but they beat us in the final. It was one of the toughest clubs. There are lots of them but Hafia ranks among the very tough sides I played against in my life. Locally too, there were lots of teams that were very tough – ICC, Kano Pillars. There used to be ACB of Lagos; some bunch of guys from Enugu went there (Lagos) to form the club and they were another tough side that I played against. Do you have any regrets playing football? I don’t have any regret. There are certain things that probably will make you regret playing football, but that was my chosen profession and I gave my all to the game. So, I don’t have any regret. Certain things that happened later almost made me regret playing football but it was what I decided to do. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 