Johnson Okafor The FMDQ Holdings Plc has listed the United Capital Plc Series 1 N10.00bn Fixed Rate Bond under its N30.00bn Bond Programme in its platform. The Exchange also admitted LAPO MFB SPV Plc Series 2 N6.20bn Fixed Rate Bond under its N20.00bn Bond Issuance Programme. FMDQ said in a statement that the Nigerian debt capital market had continued to demonstrate buoyancy and resilience in the face of the pandemic. It said this had authenticated its role and increased capacity to support domestic economic growth by providing alternative capital sources as well as the much needed liquidity to boost working capital for corporates and governments. “This remains a commendable development characterised by the towering levels of confidence demonstrated by both issuers and investors as they continue to tap the market to meet their short- and long-term business and investment objectives, respectively,” it said. The Managing Director, Investment Banking, United Capital, Babatunde Obaniyi, said, “The Series 1 bond issuance adds to the impressive portfolio of innovative and landmark transactions which are the hallmark of the United Capital brand. “The bonds, which have a tenor of 5years, recorded a 124 per cent subscription, with commitments received from Pension Funds (comprising 64 per cent of the issue), other financial institutions as well as high net worth individuals. “This very strong outcome further affirms buy-side investors’ confidence in United Capital PLC and is a testament to the leading role the organisation continues to play in the financial services space.” Commenting on the transaction, the Managing Director, LAPO Microfinance Bank, Cynthia Ikponmwosa, said, “LAPO Microfinance Bank Limited remains committed to its goal of economic empowerment of low-income households through access to finance. “This additional capital will be deployed to enhance our capacity to meet the needs of micro and small enterprises, especially actors in the rural economy. The bonds were oversubscribed by N0.2bn, an unprecedented feat in the subsector, despite market uncertainties and a demonstration of confidence by investors given the strong corporate governance and fundamentals of the Microfinance Bank.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  