As a small business owner, the goal is to sell more at little cost. So, whether you already have an online store (or not), taking your business to an online marketplace like Habari is one of the best ways to increase your sales right now. Habari Shop stands apart from other online marketplaces in many ways, mainly because it is an entirely free online shop for small business owners. In this article, we’ll share why Habari Shop is perfect for your business and how to get started. About Habari Shop Habari Shop is Nigeria’s Largest Online Shopping Platform. Users can buy the latest mobile phones, smartphones, appliances, electronics, appliances, women and men’s fashion, books, kiddies’ items, gadgets, meals, groceries, maternity essentials as well as the latest travel deals. The significant part of shopping on Habari is that customers can pay via the Habari wallet or GTPay, which guarantees the safest shopping experience. It also features web and app versions, which means it caters to the needs of a wide range of customers with different shopping experiences. Why Habari Shop is Perfect for Small Businesses While there are many options out there for small businesses to display their products, here are five reasons why many merchants now prefer to sell on Habari, and why you should too. If you’ve ever been a seller on other online shopping platforms, you’ll know that they usually charge fees for registration, listings, commissions, and so on. Habari helps you to maximize your earnings by removing these charges and focus solely on providing value to your audience. Another significant value you can gain from selling on Habari is the opportunity to promote your products on the platform at no extra cost. This way, customers can quickly find your products without searching for long. Free ads mean less expenditure and hence, allow you to direct more resources in creating quality content that best sells your product. Through a loan product called Hub Credit, Habari provides customers with loans to shop their favourite items when they don’t have the money. They can get as much as N1million and pay at a later date. Hence, Habari sellers enjoy a different kind of advantage – access to buyers with more spending power to buy your products. By listing your products on Habari, you have access to a wide range of buyers from different places in the country. The online shop has an efficient nation delivery service that sends your orders to customers once payment is confirmed. The delivery service comes to pick up the goods right from your doorstep and straight to the buyer, ultimately removing the stress of personally looking for a delivery service to handle your courier. The Habari platform comes with built-in SEO features to make your marketing much more straightforward. Like any online shop, there’s often a lot of noise from vendors and buyers. This feature maximizes the relevant keywords to help you stand out and remain visible to people who need your product. Final Thoughts If you want to take your business to more customers while doing it at a lower cost, Habari Shop is a great choice. The good thing is it doesn’t stop you from running a personal online business. If you also want a platform that offers adequate support to its vendors, you can do no wrong with Habari. To start selling on Habari Shop immediately, you can register to be a merchant in three easy steps here. 