Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The police, on Monday, arraigned nine suspected cultists before the Lagos State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ikeja. The defendants, Ayoola Quam, Oluwafemi Kolawole, Peter Adebayo, Oladunni Abiodun, Quadri Opoola, Suleiman Akarakiri, Oyenuga Gafaru, Mufutau Mustapha and Busayo Akintan, were arraigned on two counts of disorderly conduct posing a threat to society and unlawful assembly. The offences were said to be contrary to sections 44 and 42 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro learnt that the defendants were members of the Eiye and Aiye confraternities and were alleged to be disturbing the Ikorodu area of the state and its environs. It was gathered that the defendants had on March 10, 2020, at the Solebo Estate in Ikorodu went on rampage and were reportedly in search of one Femi, also known as FM, with a view to killing him. According to the prosecutor, Jide Martins, the defendants were caught fighting with assorted weapons and also used the opportunity to attack and rob residents of the area. Our correspondent learnt that upon the report of the activities of the defendants, the Ipakodo Police Division sent a signal to the Anti-Cultism Unit, whose personnel arrested the suspects. Martins told the court that one of the defendants, Opoola, confessed to having killed several persons during his gang’s operations. The prosecutor urged the court to remand the defendants pursuant to Section 264 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Lagos State, 2011, pending the outcome of the Director of Public Prosecutions’ advice. The presiding magistrate, Yetunde Ekogbulu, who refused to take the plea of the defendants, granted the prayer of the prosecutor and ordered that the defendants be remanded in the Kirikiri Medium Correctional Centre pending the conclusion of investigation. She adjourned the case till April 21, 2020. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 