John Charles, Makurdi Suspected herdsmen, on Sunday, attacked the Div-Nzaav community in the Kwande Local Government Area of Benue State and reportedly killed one person and abducted two women. The Waya community in the same local government was attacked a few weeks ago and four persons were killed. A member of the community, Mr Solomon Amande, told our correspondent on the telephone in Makurdi that armed herders invaded the village on Friday and camped in a nearby swamp area from where they unleashed mayhem on Sunday. He said in the first compound the attackers entered, they killed one Tarfa Simon, while a woman, Ngusonon Kighir, who was frying garri in the compound, was savagely attacked. He stated, “On sighting Simon, they killed him and dealt machete blows on the woman. They also took two women with children, while shooting indiscriminately. They told the women that they would not kill them because they were instructed not to kill women, but men and boys. “They could have killed the children, but they discovered that they were all girls. “As I speak with you, we have recovered the corpse of Tarfa Simon and Ngusonon Kighir is receiving treatment at the Msonter Clinic and Maternity, Jato-Aka in Kwande. We have reported this early morning attack to the Divisional Police Station in Kwande and the police post in Turan, Jato-Aka. “The community has been deserted; people fled the area and are taking refuge in market stalls at the Jato-Aka Main Market. “We have resolved to live with the herders, but they have resolved to be killing our people, who do not have anything apart from hoes and cutlasses for farm work. The burden is too much; we are helpless; we don’t have anything to resist those, who are bent on taking over our land. “Year in year out, we are being attacked and killed by armed herdsmen. I am appealing to the federal and state governments to create a special camp for our people as no one can go into the community now to reside.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Catherine Anene, said she had yet to get details of the attack in Kwande and promised to get back journalists. The Force Commander, Operation Whirl Stroke, Major General Adeyemi Yekini, said there was no case of fresh killings in the Kwande area of the state, adding that the attack was a mere speculation. “I have my troops on the ground in Jato-Aka in the Kwande area. I have sent them to the area where the people are alleging that herdsmen militias killed people. It was established that some Tiv boys went to rustle Fulani cows and they quickly turned back to raise the alarm that herdsmen attacked them. To the best of my knowledge, there is no new case in Kwande; it is just a rumour,” Yekini stated. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com