Femi Makinde and Adelani Adepegba The South and Middle Belt Leaders Forum and the Yoruba Council of Elders have faulted the $22.7bn loan request approved by the Senate for the Federal Government. The SMBLF rejected the foreign loan approved by the upper chamber and asked the Federal Government to rescind its decision to take more foreign loans which it argued might be stolen or used to fund overhead. The SMBLF also knocked the Federal Government for leaving out the South-East region from benefiting from the proposed loan. This was contained in a communique issued on Sunday, after a meeting of the forum in Abuja on Thursday. The statement was signed by the forum chairman, Chief Edwin Clark; co-chairman, and Afenifere leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo; President, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo; National Chairman, Pan Niger Delta Forum, Air Comm.  Idongesit Nkanga (retd.); President, Middle Belt Forum, Dr Pogu Bitrus, and the SMBLF secretary, Mr Yinka Odumakin. The communique read, “The forum rejects in totality the continuous external debt of the country which has risen to over $80bn in just a few years and, therefore, asks the Federal Government to rescind its ongoing effort to borrow more money to the tune of over $27bn as approved by the National Assembly. “It asserts that if not for bad governance, Nigeria would have no business engaging in these reckless loans to fund overhead and theft.” It added, “Even then, the meeting rejects the lopsided allocation of the proceeds of the huge latest external borrowing plan where the South East of the country is totally excluded.” The leaders also rejected what it called the lopsided appointments by the Federal Government “where only certain sections of the country are given priority over others as against the extant constitutional provisions.” Also, the YCE criticised the Senate for approving the $22.7bn loan request at the time when the nation is spending over 50 per cent of its revenue to service debts. The Secretary-General of the YCE, Dr Kunle Olajide, said in an interview with one of our correspondents on Sunday that Nigerian leaders did not have a history of prudent management of resources and should not have considered taking any loan at this time. Olajide said accumulating debts, which generations yet unborn would pay back, showed that the leadership did not have welfare of the masses at heart. The YCE scribe stated that the executive and the legislature should show example of prudent management of resources, saying buying of about N40bn worth of vehicles for lawmakers was sending  the wrong signal to the people that they did not care about the welfare of Nigerians. According to him, most Nigerians are reluctant to pay taxes because of the way those who are supposed to manage the resources exhibit opulence while the governed live in penury. He said, “It is unacceptable that we should even consider that now. Presently, we spend up to 60 per cent of our revenue on servicing debts. We have an economy that is based majorly on crude oil and  its price determines how our economy fares. We do not have control over it because our buyers determine the price. We don’t even refine our oil; we have to buy refine products from them also at prices the foreign refiners sell them. “I think we should stop this accumulation of debt. Now, the situation is more precarious now that coronavirus is ravaging all over the world. This epidemic has brought down the price of crude oil to $30 per barrel and we used $57 per barrel for our budget benchmark.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com