The maiden Maltina School Games came to an end on Wednesday as 17-year-old Joy Ojo of Ijaiye Housing Estate Senior High School, Lagos emerged as the Overall Best Athlete of the national finals at the sports complex of Yaba College of Technology, Lagos. The budding star won three gold medals in 100m, 200m and 4x100m race to become the first winner of the major prize and earn for herself a scholarship to any federal university of her choice. Aside Ojo’s feat, Lagos State also emerged as the overall winners of the event with 21 gold, 15 silver and five bronze medals, just as the Federal Capital Territory placed second with four gold, 13 silver and 10 bronze. Kano were third with four gold and six bronze, while Anambra took the rear with three gold, four silver and 11 bronze medals. Sikirat Anifowoshe won the Best Junior Girl award with gold medals in 100m and 4 x100m, while Moses Okon of EUBA Junior Secondary School, Lagos won the Best Junior Boy athlete with gold medals in 400m and 4 x100m relay. Ojo also doubled as the Best Senior Girl with gold medals in the events that gave her the best overall winner, just as Onyebuchi Nnebedum of Christ Redeemer College, Anambra State won the Best Male Athlete with gold medals in javelin and shot put events. Popular musicians Mayorkun and Teni thrilled the crowd with some of their favourite lyrics, just as calisthenics display from school children rounded up a memorable afternoon for all the participants. The event was rounded up with a dinner party, where prizes were given out to winners in all the events competed for in the three-day national finals. The Maltina School Games is a new intervention in school sports by the country’s number one family drink from the stable of Nigeria Breweries PLC. Over 20 million children were impacted in the maiden edition of the event. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  