Johnson Okafor Wema Bank Plc has said it will support three women-owned businesses with N100,000 each as part of activities marking this year’s International Women’s Day. The bank said it would celebrate female staff and customers of the bank at a bank-wide event slated for Friday (today). Tagged ‘Generation equality: Realising a woman’s right,” the interactive session will draw from the IWD global theme to discuss collective individualism as a notion in the drive for gender equality, according to a statement. The bank said the session would take place in Lagos and across the 146 branches of the bank nationwide. According to the statement, the session is also open to customers, especially members of the bank’s women-support community, and will further promote the SARA by Wema community which has empowered over 10,000 women since its launch in March 2019 through financial literacy programmes. The Head, Brand and Marketing, Wema Bank, Funmilayo Falola, said, “The event will champion the discourse that we are all responsible for our thoughts and actions. “As a bank, we believe that we can actively choose to challenge stereotypes, fight bias, broaden perceptions, improve situations and celebrate women’s achievement.” According to the statement, the bank is partnering with Afro-soul singer, Aramide, to host ‘Songversation with Aramide’, a concert-style event that celebrates the achievement of women in Nigeria. Falola said, “The partnership will also see the bank support three women-owned businesses with N100,000 each. Last year, catering and food packaging business, Tasty Corridors, fashion and luxury style startups, Exotic Mee and Radiant Couture received a N100,000 grant, which helped all three businesses to add up on equipment, while also providing them with global recognition and networking opportunities. “This year, three more women-owned business will be selected through a campaign on the bank’s social media pages @wemabank and @sarabywema on Instagram and Twitter, and ‘Wema Bank’ on Facebook. Five businesses will be shortlisted after nominations by followers, while the final three will be voted for. “Wema Bank remains committed to the cause of building a gender-equal society by partnering initiatives that champion the financial inclusion of women, while also encouraging women to constantly seek for better.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  