Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The preferred bidder of the Aluminum Smelter Company of Nigeria, BFIG Group, has claimed that the Bureau of Public Enterprises is frustrating the takeover of the company 16 years after it won the bid. The BFIG President, Chief Reuben Jaja, in an interview with journalists in Abuja on Friday alleged among other claims that BPE deliberately frustrated the BFIG’s attempts to take over ALSCON by altering the contents of the original Share Purchase Agreement from a 58-page document to 16 pages. He said by reducing the SPA to 16 pages, most vital provisions including an important one that addressed gas purchase agreement were removed. This, he said, was in violation of the judgement of the Supreme Court on the matter. The BFIG and Russian firm, Rusal, had been competing both in the bid room and courts over who should acquire ALSCON. The Supreme Court had in a judgment of July 6, 2012 ruled that the Bureau of Public Enterprises should return ALSCON to the BFIG, an American company. He faulted the BPE’s claim that the BFIG was presented with the SPA on more than one occasion but failed to make payment. He said, “In 2012, after more than four months of the Supreme Court’s judgment, the BPE DG at the time agreed to give BFIG the same 58-page SPA given to the UC RUSAL in 2006 to sign. “The document contained almost all what the BFIG agreed to as bidders at a special technical conference of all parties to the bid in 2004, including BPE and all the bidders. “In the meeting, it was agreed that whoever emerges winners would be invited by the BPE to negotiate the SPA, after which 15 working days would be allowed for the winner to make payment. “Immediately the BFIG received the SPA, it did not waste time to sign it. This was in October 2012. In the transmittal letter to the BPE, the BFIG requested from the BPE to provide its account coordinates to deposit the $41m initial payment. “One month passed, the BPE did not give any response. We wrote them a reminder, still no response between October 2012 when the BFIG returned the completed SPA and January 2013. “Later, they wrote to apologise, that they were organising so we could go and inspect the property and conduct a technical audit, so that we know what we were buying. “When the then the BPE DG refused to change the decision, she was fired from office. After four months, all of a sudden, BPE abandoned the 58-page agreement we had signed and returned to them.” He claimed that when the new DG of the BPE assumed office, he gave the BFIG an abridged version of the SPA which omitted key components of the transaction “The new DG then came in January. His first job was to give the BFIG a brand new agreement. “This time, only 16 pages.  The BFIG reviewed this 16-page document and wondered how the BPE dropped the agreement from 58 pages approved by the Supreme Court to just 16 pages. “In the new agreement, key attachments, including the source of gas supply, were removed. Everything that would make the BFIG successful were carefully uprooted by the BPE from the agreement.” He said based on the 16-page SPA, the BFIG was of the view that the project was not commercially viable, as no serious commercial bank would want to finance such transaction. “To worsen the situation, BFIG had already submitted the other signed 58-page agreement to its board of directors, bankers, investors and lawyers in the United States. The BPE had assured us in writing that all was well. “But, that is where the new fight started after the Supreme Court ruling.” He also alleged that some top government officials offered him bribe with a view to dropping his bid for ALSCON. He said, “They offered me $35m to forget about the BFIG’s right to ALSCON. They wanted me to sell the Supreme Court judgment to them for $35m. “When I rejected the offer outright and walked out of the meeting, the BPE DG called me to his office and told me, even if I wanted more, he would be ready to assist in negotiating for more. “In the midnight, he kept calling my home. I was so annoyed because I thought they were inviting me to try to find solutions to the problem.” But the Director General of BPE, Mr Alex Okoh, faulted Jaja’s claims. Okoh said the BFIG said that BFIG indeed signed the SPA contrary to denial by Jaja. The BPE boss also dismissed allegation the company was bribed so as to stop its bid to take over ALSCON. He said, “He has already signed the agreement as ordered by the Supreme Court. Why did he sign it if it was the wrong one? “He signed in December last year. We have a copy of the agreement and we can show it to the press if he wants. “The agreement he signed stipulates that he makes payment within 15 days. He has not made any payment. “It is very unfortunate that we can allow this kind of irresponsibility from a Nigerian who has done everything to castrate such a vital national asset with no intention to change his behaviour. It is very unfortunate. I will not condone it.” On the bribery allegation, Okoh said, “Why would I offer him money. It is ludicrous. I am the seller of the asset not a buyer. Why would I offer him money? For what? Where do I get the money to offer him and for what purpose? “ If he has money to pay in line with the Supreme Court judgement, let him just bring the money. To try and use cheap blackmail to acquire such a strategic national asset for free or through the back door is disingenuous. It’s not going to happen.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 