Olufunke Talinum triangulare is a leafy vegetable found in open waste places with rich top soil. Yoruba call it gbure, Igbo named it mgbolodi while it’s known as alenyruwai in Hausa. It is a member of the family portulacaceae. It occurs in West and Central Africa; in West Africa it occurs alongside a relative, Talinumportulacifolium which suggests that this vegetable species is probably of African origin. Waterleaf, as the plant is commonly called, is popular as a pot herb in Nigeria and Cameroon. Talinum triangulare has an advantage of perennial survival because it can be propagated vegetatively and it sets viable seeds which germinate in five days.  Propagation from seed to harvest takes about six weeks! Vegetative cuttings of between 10-15cm in length, with the lower leaves removed, can also be used to raise new plants which will be ready for the first harvest in three weeks. Most of the supply of talinum for sale in the market is obtained from the wild, farmlands and waste places in urban and rural settlements. One expects that cultivation will be a viable alternative given the biological data already provided and also the danger of contamination of wild sources on account of the indiscriminate use of herbicides on farmlands and waste places around habitations. This poses a potent danger for public health that people who use talinum as a source of leafy vegetable should be aware of and apprehend. Apart from the use of talinum for vegetable, it is also used as fodder for snails and supplement for chickens and turkeys; the carotenes make the yolk of the eggs of these birds yellow. Nutritional values of talinum triangulare In an attempt to ascertain the nutritional values of waterleaf, Ezekweet al. (2001) carried out a preliminary phytochemical study on this vegetable. The study shows that it is rich in Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Omega-3 fatty acids, calcium, magnesium, soluble fibres (pectin), potassium, β-carotene, proteins and dietary fibre.  Furthermore, Enete and Okon (2010) noted that waterleaf is a rich source of crude protein (22.1%), crude fibre (11.12%) and ash (33.98%). All these vitamins and minerals contribute to the high antioxidant value of waterleaf. Culinary values: Waterleaf is highly nutritious, refreshing and tasty and, as such, it is used in several cuisines for preparing assorted dishes. Medicinal properties: Ajaet al. (2010) found that waterleaf is an excellent source of tannins, alkaloids, saponins and flavonoids which suggests its potential medicinal and dietary benefits. These results show that the leaves contain considerable proportions of bioactive compounds essential for preventing and treating various ailments. Antioxidant properties: Antioxidants protect the body cells against the damaging impacts of reactive oxygen species (ROS). It is important to note that if any sort of imbalance occurs between antioxidants and reactive oxygen species, then there are high chances of oxidative stress that can lead to cellular damage. According to Farombi and Fakoya (2005), antioxidants also help to prevent and minimise the reactive effects of free radicals including oxidative damage to membranes and increased enzyme inactivation or susceptibility to lipid peroxidation. In an attempt to gain more insight Liang et al (2011) evaluated the antioxidant and hepato-protective activities of polysaccharides from this vegetable. In vitro assays revealed various degrees of antioxidant activities in dose-dependent manners.  The crude waterleaf extract showed a relatively strong antioxidant activity; 40 per cent extract showed the strongest antioxidant activity while 60 per cent showed the weakest activity. Supports the liver: Liver diseases remain a major cause of death all over the world.  Ezekwe et al (2013) carried out phytochemical investigations on the methanol extract of Talinum triangulare on the liver and blood confirming that the leaves are rich in bioactive compounds which acted in a dose-dependent manner to suppress oxidative damage in liver cells. They concluded that the leaves of talinum contain phytochemicals for supporting the liver and boosting the overall wellbeing of the body. This is in agreement with the position of Liang et al (2011) Waterleaf is good for pregnant women: Ezekweet al (2013) recommended that pregnant women should use water leaf in their diets because it possesses the ability to clear bilirubin from the blood suggesting that it can thereby help the red cells to live longer. Enhances cerebral functioning: Ofusori et al (2008) verified the impact of waterleaf aqueous extract on the cerebrum of Swiss albino mice by carrying out malondialdehyde and catalase activities followed by histological examination of the stained specimens.  Histology revealed that the treated parts of the cerebrum did not show degenerative changes and intercellular vacuolations in the stroma suggesting that waterleaf water extract inhibited oxidative stress thereby averting neuronal injury. They recommended intake of waterleaf to enhance cerebral functioning. Aids easy digestion: Due to the high dietary fibre in waterleaf, this green leafy vegetable is recommended on a daily basis to aid easy digestion of food. Proper food digestion is essential for preventing gastrointestinal disorders such as indigestion, constipation, flatulence and irritable bowel syndrome. Laxative effects: Waterleaf is packed with essential antioxidants and soluble fibres that act as mild laxatives. It is, therefore, recommended for use when constipation is an issue. Regulates blood sugar Level: Joshua et al. (2012) reported that talinum triangulare is essential for managing diabetes mellitus. The high dietary contents of this vegetable help to slow down the digestion and conversion of starch to simple sugars. It is worthy to note that this is essential for managing diabetes mellitus. It also regulates the cholesterol level due to its high dietary fibre content. Joshua et al (2012) pointed out that this vegetable is useful for regulating cholesterol level.  This is because the dietary fibre reduces the absorption of cholesterol from the gut thereby protecting the body from any disease associated with bad cholesterol in the body. Prevents cancer: Due to the high antioxidants found in waterleaf, studies revealed that it is suitable for preventing the onset of cancer and tumour growths. Management of cardiovascular diseases: Adewumi et al (1980) pointed out that waterleaf can be useful for preventing the onset of cardiovascular diseases such as stroke. Poultry feed: Animal feeds are presently becoming so expensive thus the need for cheaper alternatives. Nworgu et al (2015) evaluated the use of water leaf meal as supplement for soya bean meal (SBM) and groundnut cake (GNC) in the broiler feed. However, all other ingredients remained constant. The broilers were weighed at the onset of the experiment and on a weekly basis throughout the experiment. The result showed that waterleaf meal is an ideal protein supplement for broilers especially for broiler finishers without any detrimental effect on performance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 