Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a 35-year-old man, Habeeb Kasali, for allegedly killing his wife’s suspected lover, Bamidele Johnson. Kasali was reported to have used a pair of scissors to stab Johnson several times in his chest, eye and neck, which led to his death. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. Oyeyemi said the suspect killed the deceased based on suspicion that he was having an affair with his wife. According to the PPRO, the suspect was arrested following a complaint by a relation of the deceased at the Igbesa Police Divisional Headquarters. Oyeyemi stated, “The complainant informed the police that a fight ensued between the suspect and the deceased at the Totowu area, when the suspect confronted the deceased with the accusation of having an affair with his wife despite several warnings from him. “In the process, the suspect used a pair of scissors to stab the deceased several times in his chest, eye and neck as a result of which the deceased lost consciousness. “He was immediately rushed to the Crest Hospital on Isuti Road, Egan, Lagos State, where he was confirmed to have been brought in dead by a doctor. “Having realised that the victim had died, the suspect took to his heels, but the DPO, Igbesa Divisional Headquarters, SP Abayomi Adeniji, quickly dispatched his detectives to go after him and he was eventually arrested from where he ran to. “The corpse of the deceased has been recovered and deposited in the Ota General Hospital mortuary for autopsy.” Oyeyemi added that the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 