Rasheed Bisiriyu Stallion Motors has unveiled some popular car brands such as Honda, Hyundai, Nissan and Changan, assembled in Nigeria. The auto brands dominated the Federal Government’s organised Nigeria-assembled automobile parade held in Abuja. The brands were recently showcased at the Argungu auto rally where Stallion Motors was a title sponsor. Stallion Group’s General Manager, Marketing, Arpita Luthra, expressed satisfaction with the timing of the event, describing the groups’ paraded brands as a testimony to the company’s efforts at industrialising Nigeria through production of automobiles made in Nigeria by Nigerians. Luthra was quoted as saying at the rally that the group was represented by three popular Nigerian assembled vehicles – Hyundai Creta, Nissan NP300 and Changan CS35. “Hyundai Creta, Nigeria’s largest selling new car in the crossover segment, controls 34 per cent of the total segment share and is topicalised with best-in-class ground clearance of 190mm and unmatched five years of warranty,” Luthra said. She described the Nissan NP300 as robust and sturdy powered by a 2.4 litre petrol engine. According to her, the Nissan NP300, a four-wheel drive, has severe off-road capabilities and is the perfect utility vehicle that is equipped with the latest safety features such as airbags, the ABS and crumble zones. Also flying Stallion’s flag at the rally was the Changan CS35, which she said was the fastest-emerging mini SUV in Nigeria. “A perfect urban city SUV, Changan CS35 comes with elegantly sculpted surfaces, more cabin space and intuitive advanced technologies in a budget that most (vehicle buyers) can afford,” she added. She explained that Stallion’s automobiles division had a collective sub-group of companies representing an array of globally renowned automobile brands on an exclusive basis for distribution, sale and after-sale service. According to Luthra, Stallion is Nigeria’s representative for Honda, Hyundai, Nissan, Volkswagen, Porsche, Audi, Skoda, Changan and Ashok Leyland, all of which collectively contribute to over 45 per cent share of the new automobiles market in Nigeria. He said Stallion’s VON was the largest auto manufacturing assembly plant in West Africa, with six auto assembly lines for passenger cars, buses and trucks. “Spread across 310 acres, the plant has an installed capacity of 200,000 units annually and a warehouse of 100,000 square metres. The company, which employs hundreds of employees, has invested more than N130bn in the nation’s auto sector,” she added. At the Abuja auto event, the Director-General of National Automotive Design and Development Council, Mr Jelani Aliyu, was quoted as saying Nigerians should encourage and support automakers in the country by shunning importation in favour of Nigeria-assembled vehicles. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  