Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti An Ado Ekiti High Court, on Monday, sentenced a 39-year-old man, Femi Romiluyi, to eight years’ imprisonment for burglary and stealing. The court found him guilty of the offences based on his confessional statement and the testimonies of witnesses called during the trial. Romiluyi was convicted of stealing an iPad and MTN recharge cards valued at N30,000 on one occasion, and HP laptops and the sum of N20,000, on another occasion. The judge, Justice Bamidele Omotosho, however, did not find him guilty of armed robbery, which he was also charged with. Justice Omotosho said after listening to the prosecution and defence counsel, “The prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt and established the case of burglary. “The court finds you guilty as charged on counts three and four for the offences of burglary and stealing, but based on the plea of the defence counsel, who described you as a first offender, you are hereby sentenced to eight years in jail.” Earlier, the prosecution counsel from the state Ministry of Justice, Mr Abon Akinola, had said, “The defendant committed the offences on January 11, 2016. While armed with weapons such as gun, club, knife and cutlass, he dispossessed one Ojumu Adeniran of his iPad and MTN recharge cards valued at N30,000. “Again, on January 12, 2016, at the Textile area, the convict also dispossessed one Pastor Sunday Ariyo of his HP laptops and the sum of N20,000, while armed with offensive weapons.” Abon said the offences contravened Section 402(2) of the Criminal Code Law, Cap C 16, Vol. 1, Laws of Ekiti State of Nigeria, 2012. The prosecution called five witnesses and tendered exhibits, including pictures as well as the statements of the convict and the victims. The defence counsel, Mr Lawrence Fasanmi, who called only a witness, pleaded for leniency and prayed the court to temper justice with mercy as his client was a first offender and still in his prime and could still be useful to society. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 