Sola Shittu An Abuja High Court on Saturday issued an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the Peoples Democratic Party, Edo State, from holding or conducting any state congress in the state. In a motion filed by Friday Okah and three others against the PDP, the suit is challenging the ward and local government area congresses conducted by the party in Edo State on Saturday, February 1 and Saturday, March 7, 2020. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Aikhuenegbe Malik, who is counsel for Friday Okah and three others, warned the PDP against conduct of the Edo State congress scheduled to hold on Saturday, March 14. Earlier, Justice Joy Okeaya-Inneh of the Edo State High Court sitting in Ekpoma, had ordered that status quo be maintained till March 31 when she would rule on whether to strike out the suit filed by Mr Sylvanus Eruaga against the February 1st ward congresses of the party. The Edo State PDP had filed a motion to strike out the suit and the court adjourned ruling until March 31 on whether to strike out the suit or not. It ordered all parties to maintain status quo. Counsel for Eruaga, Dele Igbinedion, said his clients would abide and urged the PDP and INEC to obey the order. Chief Malik said some aggrieved Edo PDP leaders had filed a suit at the Abuja Federal High Court challenging the conduct of the party’s ward and local government Congresses on February 1st and March 7. Malik in a letter to National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, said a motion of notice had been filed seeking an interlocutory injunction restraining the party from holding or organising state congresses because they were in violation of the PDP constitution. He stated that parties in the suit ought to maintain status quo by not conducting any state congress in line with Order 4 Rule 9 of the Civil Procedure Rules of the High Court. “It is noteworthy that the suit having been properly filed before a competent court of law, position of the law is that parties ought to and indeed should respect the institution of the judiciary by ensuring that nobody takes any step to tamper with the litigation. “You are accordingly advised and required by law to suspend the proposed state congress in Edo State. We are confident that under your leadership, the party will not act otherwise. “Clearly, no harm will occasion any party to this suit on account of a suspension or postponement of the congress until a determination of the motion on notice by the court.” When contacted, Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Chris Nehikhare, said there was no court order stopping the state congress. He said the congress would hold as scheduled. The tenure of the State Executive of the Edo PDP led by Chief Dan Orbih ends today and a new executive is expected to be elected. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  