What shaped the past week? Global:  On Sunday, major central banks around the world enacted measures to inject liquidity into the financial system as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak. On Monday, US President Donald Trump warned of a recession in the U.S., as the COVID-19 virus outbreak continues to restrict business activities globally. Multiple circuit breakers were trigged on Monday; however, this did not stop The Dow Jones Industrial Index from plunging 12.94%, recording its worst day since 1987. Meanwhile, in Europe, the German government ordered the closure of all non-essential shops, as the number of COVID-19 cases surged by 20% to 6,012. US markets fared better on Tuesday, as reports of a proposed $1 trillion stimulus package from the White House for the US economy, helped diminish the losses recorded in the previous session; meanwhile, in Asia, the Bank of Japan decided to inject $30.272 billion through the coming three-month period into the markets hitting the US dollar funding in an attempt to stabilize the economy. On Wednesday, global markets closed deep in the red, with trading on the New York Stock Exchange halted by a triggered circuit breaker, following a drop of more than 7% in the S&P500. However, markets traded in the green on Thursday supported by announced stimulus packages by the ECB as well as the Bank of England; after the ECB’S launch of a €750 billion pandemic emergency purchase program, the Bank of England voted unanimously to reduce its interest rates by 15 basis points, while adding £200 billion to its asset-purchase program. On Friday, crude prices rebounded in early-market trading following a statement by the Kremlin Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov who stated that Russia is “ready for contact over oil prices,” which have significantly dropped since countries started expanding crude oil production. Domestic Economy: On March 9, Brent crude oil front-month futures prices fell below $35/bbl, following the OPEC+ meeting which ended without an agreement on production levels. Last week, the executive director of the IEA Fatih Birol, in conjunction with the OPEC Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo expressed their concerns over the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as it is likely to reduce the income for oil and gas producing nations. Recent IEA analysis revealed that should present market conditions persist, vulnerable developing countries should expect their oil and gas revenue to plummet by 50% – 80% in 2020. At the start of the year, the IEA expected oil demand growth to coming in 1.2mbpd, however following the outbreak of the virus, it trimmed its demand growth forecast to 825kbpd. Nigeria remains particularly vulnerable to a lower crude environment, as shocks in the global oil markets will weigh on fiscal revenue generated by the government. In its 2020 budget, 44% of projected revenues is to come from oil related sources, with N1.22 trillion earmarked for federally funded projects in the oil and gas sector, however the downturn in crude prices has led to the nation to cut its budget for 2020, halted the borrowing plans of the government and has weighed on sentiment in the equities market. Lower receipts from oil sales will likely lead to an increase in NPLs from oil miners, a rise in NPLs will weigh on the incomes of banks, further dampening investor sentiment on the sector. Furthermore, with Saudi Arabia and its allies slated to increase production from April – May, lower oil prices will increase pressure on the nation’s foreign reserves as well as the nation’s ability to generate fiscal revenues. Equities: The local bourse traded lower this week shedding 235bps, as fears of the low crude price environment weighed on investor sentiment. Shares in the Industrial Goods (-485bps) sector fell sharply this week, led by losses observed in DANGCEM (-15.2% w/w) and WAPCO (-516bps w/w). Meanwhile, the weakened sentiment over Consumer Goods sector (-320bps) continues to persist, as losses recorded in NESTLE (-713bps w/w) drove the sector lower despite strong gains in CADBURY (+26.26%) and PZ (+18.67%). In addition, despite capital depreciations in UBA (-18.70% w/w) and GUARANTY (-211bps w/w), the Banking Sector (+29bps w/w) gained marginally last week; in M&A news, talks of proposed acquisition of UBN (+20.00% w/w) by ZENITHBANK (+210bps w/w) saw both counters advance this week. Finally gains witnessed in energy firm OANDO (+10.50% w/w), was enough to propel the Oil and Gas sector (+22bps w/w) up marginally. For the week, volume and value traded moderated 29.24% and 47.28%; the index has lost 15.53% since crude prices plunged c30.00% following the breakdown of the OPEC+ production agreement between Russia and Saudi Arabia, on March 6, 2020. Fixed Income: On Wednesday, the CBN conducted a primary market auction where they offered and sold 47.4 billion across the three maturities, at stop rates of 2.30%, 3.40% and 4.60% (effective yields: 2.31%, 3.46%, 4.82%). However, the CBN conducted and OMO auction on Thursday, offering N150 billion but recording no sales. Moreover, trading in the fixed income space was mixed this week, as the average yield in the OMO market eased 23bps w/w while advancing 16bps w/w in the NTB space. Meanwhile, further sell-side sentiment at the mid-end of the curve saw the yield on the 209DTM bill advance 147bps to settle at 4.67%. However, buy-side activity at the long-end of the OMO market, saw the yield on the 312DTM OMO bill moderated 275bps to settle at 16.36%. Meanwhile, as investors adjust to a low-crude environment, the average yield on benchmark bonds advanced 20bps last week, driven by sell-offs observed at the short-end of the bond space; of note, the yield on the FGN-JUL-2030 bond advanced 244bps w/w to settle at 12.77%. Currency: The Naira depreciated by N3.53 w/w at the I&E FX Window to settle at N372.00 and advanced N0.50 unchanged w/w to close at N370.00 against the dollar in the parallel market. What will shape markets in the coming week? Equity market: The local bourse recorded another negative w/w performance as overhanging uncertainties in the global and domestic spaces continue to weaken investors’ confidence. Going into this week, we expect the market to continue to react to events in the crude oil market as well as news surrounding the Coronavirus. Fixed Income market:  With investors unnerved as the outbreak of COVID-19 spreads throughout the globe, coupled with the ongoing price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia, we foresee tepid trading in the fixed income space to the start of the week, as we expect market participants to remain on the sidelines barring any positive news to spur buy-side activity. Currency: We expect the naira to remain largely stable across the various windows of the currency space as the CBN maintains interventions in the FX market. Focus for the week February 2020 Inflation – Headline inflation inches higher on bottoming food prices, VAT Nigeria’s consumer inflation inched higher to 12.20% y/y (Vetiva estimate: 12.34% y/y) in Feb’20, data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed. This is a faster inflation rise compared to Jan’20 (12.13% y/y) and 11.37% y/y a year ago. However, the pace of growth of the annual inflation rate is low (+7bps) compared to an average growth of +18bps per month recorded in the last five months of 2019, following the land border closure. This means the impact of the border closure on certain goods & services has started tapering, and prices are getting normalized. Although the headline inflation number came in weaker than expected, it is still well above the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) comfort level. The increase in the annual headline inflation rate is underpinned by a faster rise in prices, across both the food and core components of the index in February compared to January. Food inflation rose to 14.90% y/y from 14.85% in Jan’20, while core inflation also inched higher to 9.43% y/y from 9.35% y/y in January. Prices of food items like fish, meat, vegetables and cereals were the main drivers of inflation, as food prices continued to bottom out while the implementation of the 7.5% VAT rate pressured core components. Monthly inflation cools on weak demand On a monthly basis, all inflation indices eased, reflecting sluggish aggregate demand. Lending credence to the hypothesis of weaker demand in Feb’20 is the Purchasing Manager’s Indices readings for Feb’20 which revealed that, although purchasing managers’ purchases grew at a faster pace in the month, new order levels grew at a slower pace and the stock of finished goods grew at a faster pace, indicative of weaker than anticipated demand. As a result of weaker demand from consumers, the monthly headline inflation slowed to 0.79% m/m (Jan: 0.87% m/m) led by the 12bps m/m moderation in food inflation from 0.99% m/m in Jan’20 to 0.87% m/m in Feb’20. Core prices to limit inflation moderation Although we expect domestic demand to be in congruence with the global trend and remain fragile, we see little room for a sharp moderation in inflation in FY’20. As such, we expect the annual inflation rate for FY’20 to print at 11.5% y/y, weaker than our previous estimate of 11.8% y/y as fears of an impending recession and the impact on supply chain disruptions rein in domestic demand. However, prices of items such as medicines and healthcare services may spike in the near term due to price-gouging. Unfortunately, the recent slump in crude oil prices is unlikely to reflect in core-inflation through a reduction in the pump price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), as the downstream oil sector is regulated. In addition, the looming upward review of electricity tariffs would prevent a sharper moderation in headline inflation. We are also not ruling out the possibility of a pass-through impact of currency pressures on consumer prices through imported inflation. In the ongoing month, we expect the headline inflation to print at 12.30% y/y led by both food and core price pressures. We expect both the food and core inflation for Mar’20 to come in at 15.08% y/y and 9.52% y/y respectively as food prices continue to be pressured by seasonality while core price pressures could stem from the health and transport sectors. The softer outlook for inflation expectation leaves no room for monetary policy accommodation in the coming months as the slump in oil prices has put the country in a critical situation. Therefore, we believe the CBN will be more focused on the transmission of its unconventional policies to the economy rather than opting to lower the benchmark interest rate to stave off a coronavirus-induced recession. Whilst reasonable care has been taken in preparing this document to ensure the accuracy of facts stated herein and that the ratings, forecasts, estimates and opinions also contained herein are objective, reasonable and fair, no responsibility or liability is accepted either by Vetiva Capital Management Limited or any of its employees for any error of fact or opinion expressed herein. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   