Leke Baiyewu, Abuja A member of the House of Representatives, Mr Farah Dagogo, has said the N37bn budgeted for the renovation of the National Assembly Complex and the money meant for the purchase of exotic  cars for lawmakers should be spent on out-of-school children. While  senators have chosen Toyota Land Cruiser Prado for themselves, members of the lower chamber  (House of Representatives) have settled for  Toyota Camry 2020 model. The House on Thursday spent about five hours to discuss the issues affecting the Nigerian child. In  an interaction with reporters  in Abuja on Monday, Dagogo  said the money earmarked for the  renovation project and  exotic cars should be used to educate   children. The Peoples Democratic Party lawmaker from Rivers State  said  prioritising and finding a lasting solution to the  problem of out-of-school children  should be the main focus of the parliament. He said, “I’m particularly happy that the Minority Leader (Ndudi Elumelu) urged members to make sacrifices from their salaries and allowances to curb the menace. That is good but I think using a legislative backing to rework the N37bn already budgeted for the renovation of the National Assembly for our out-of-school children should be thoroughly considered. “Also, the planned purchase of vehicles for members should be jettisoned now; the money should be  channelled into the project. “By doing so,  the National Assembly, especially this 9th Assembly, will prove it  is a group (of lawmakers) who are willing and ready to sacrifice their comfort for the benefit of the masses, who are also our constituents. “We all know the financial quagmire the country is into today. all levels of government are working round the clock to improve the lives of the masses. If we are truly desirous of getting this out-of-school children debacle right,  the renovation of the National Assembly, purchase of cars and other sundry  matters should be shelved. How to better the lives of our children for the future should be the priority. Even if most people would not want to admit it, the National Assembly is an institution known for taking proactive steps and measures that serve the interest of the country. This is another moment to test that character.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 