Under the Contributory Pension Scheme, it is easy for retirees to process their pensions and start accessing their benefits on time with the right knowledge, NIKE POPOOLA reports According to National Pension Commission, one of the grounds in which a contributor can access his or her money in the Retirement Savings Account under the Contributory Pension Scheme is through the mandatory retirement as stated under sections 7 and 16 of the Pension Reform Act 2014. A retiree must be at least 50 years or must have retired from service on attainment of maximum allowable length of service (generally 35 years in the public sector). To process retirement benefits under the CPS, a retiree needs to take some required documents to his or her Pension Fund Administrator. The retiree would be required to fill an application form to show that he or she is applying for his pension benefits and also choose retirement options  – programmed withdrawal or annuity. Documents to be presented are retirement letter, birth certificate or age declaration, recent passport photographs, the last three-month pay slips, letter of employment, and valid means of identification. The retiree would be asked to bring a bank account number for payment of the benefits. Operators have said it is advisable to use savings accounts to avoid bank charges associated with current accounts, especially when large sums are paid. Retirees in the public sector would be required to produce their retirement benefits bonds certificates. Those who opt for annuity would be required to go to their insurance companies and obtain agreement forms. Under the CPS, the most recent mandatory requirement to obtain pension benefits is the National Identification Number. Without the NIN, an individual cannot access his or her benefits in his Retirement Savings Account. It is also very important to know that all names on the documents submitted must be the same, as a difference in the names on any of the document would not be allowed. The retiree would be asked to make the necessary adjustments to a name change. According to the CPS, there are two retirement options under the CPS, namely, programmed withdrawal and life annuity. The features of programmed withdrawal are that it is a product offered by the PFAs for periodic payments (monthly/quarterly) to a  retiree, and the RSA balance is spread over expected lifespan of a retiree (expected lifespan determined by actuarial/mortality table). Under the programmed withdrawal, the pensions may be enhanced at regular intervals subject to returns on investment; the balance in the RSA is reinvested by the PFA for maximum growth, and it can be bequeathed as inheritance if death occurs at any time. Life annuity, on the other hand, is a financial product offered by insurance companies for a regular income in consideration for the payment of premium from a retiree. It provides regular pension payments for life as long as the retiree is alive, and it is guaranteed for 10 years in case of death. Retiree life annuity is an insurance product and one of the available retirement benefit options for retirees which   can   be   purchased   from   a   life   insurance   company   licensed   by   the   National   Insurance   Commission A retiree could compare what the PFAs have to offer under the programmed withdrawal and what the insurance companies have to offer under the annuity, before he or she proceeds to sign any document to obtain his lump sum. The monthly stipends start after the individual has been paid his lump sum. But those who have less than N550,000,  would be given all the balance in their RSAs as it would be considered insufficient to  fund programmed withdrawal or annuity. The Director-General, Lagos State Pension Commission, Mrs Folashade Onanuga, says it is important for retirees to get knowledge on the peculiarities of the programmed withdrawal and annuity options before choosing which to adopt. She said retirees were not to be coerced into any retirement option. The director-general also advised retirees to invest their monies wisely in businesses they could monitor by themselves. Inconsistency in data of the retiree with the PFA can delay processing of pension benefits. The Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited, Mr Eric Fajemisin, urged employees to update their information with their PFAs before retirement to facilitate easy access to their retirement benefits. He said organisations should encourage their employees to leverage the Enhanced Contributor Registration System, to ensure that their data was up to date. The data recapture exercise was introduced to enable PFAs obtain complete and accurate data of all RSAs in line with the provisions of Section 23 (e) of the Pension Reform Act 2014. The acting Director-General, PenCom, Aisha Dahir-Umar, said the CPS was important in the face of contemporary developments in Nigeria’s pension landscape and the Nigerian economy, as a whole. She said, “The Contributory Pension Scheme was established to address challenges bedevilling the erstwhile retirement benefit system (Pay As You Go/defined Benefit) in the public sector and Provident Fund/Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund in the private sector. “The erstwhile schemes were unsustainable and characterised by inefficiencies such as paucity of funds, inadequate budgetary provisions for salaries and pensions, opaque and cumbersome administrative structures, low coverage and ineffective regulation and supervision.” The President, Pension Funds Operators Association of Nigeria, Mrs Aderonke Adedeji, said having a pension account under the CPS is important because pensions affect all groups people. She said, “Those who are employed either by the private or public sector will give their best during their active years, knowing that they have a pension to fall back on in their retirement years. “For the self-employed and informal workers, the pension savings are probably their only savings vehicle, helping to instil the discipline of Iong-term savings. “For the retired, it provides succour and dignity in their twilight years. For the unemployed, the investments by the Pension industry enables the economy to grow and create jobs in the process.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  