Ebenezer Bajela Minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, says the Federal Government has approved the National Youth Service Corps orientation camps and four national stadiums as isolation centres for coronavirus patients. The stadiums are National Stadium, Lagos; Liberty Stadium, Ibadan; Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna and the Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja.  Dare wrote on his Twitter handle on Friday,  “Mr. President has approved for the Ministry of Youth and Sports to open and make available the stadiums in Lagos, Ibadan, Abuja, and Kaduna, as well as our NYSC camps nationwide for use as isolation centres, as they are needed. We are in touch with relevant authorities. “We are in this together. And together we shall overcome. I call on the youths of Nigeria to be at the vanguard of dissemination of timely and accurate information via social media to Nigerians in their communities. We must ratchet up the awareness campaign for our people. “The government is being proactive by making available necessary resources and infrastructure in this race against time. Our hope and prayers are that this pandemic will be stopped sooner rather than later. “The identification and fumigation of multiple buildings such as the multipurpose sports hall, gyms etc. located in the stadium will commence shortly. “The stadiums are huge complexes with many outdoor and indoor areas. Medical personnel and authorities will determine the appropriate areas of usage if and when necessary. “Stadiums can be used as testing centres and because of space they will allow for required distancing. Our prayers are that Nigeria never gets to this level – but we must all be prepared to support the system.  God bless all our doctors and medical staff at this critical time.” Nigeria currently has a total of 65 confirmed COVID-19 cases including 44 in Lagos and 11 in Abuja, the country’s capital city. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 