Oladimeji Ramon The President, Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev Samson Ayokunle, on Sunday said arrogance of humans against God and constituted authority was responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the world. The cleric made this assertion in his special sermon, titled “Looking unto Jesus: I Shall Fear no Evil,” which was transmitted on New Frontier TV. Making reference to Numbers 21: 4-9 in the Bible, Ayokunle said the coronavirus pandemic pointed to the need for mankind to have a change of heart from their wickedness. He said, “As in the case of the children of Israel in this passage, the arrogance of man against God and lawfully constituted authority led to God’s anger and judgment over the people. “People say anything today against God and against the word of God. The Holy Scriptures injunctions, which are God’s commands, no longer matter before us. We query the validity of the word of God and equally deliberately act against it. All practices that would make us worship God we reject or abandon under the guise of fundamental human rights. “In some advanced nations, anything about God must not be mentioned in any public event neither can people worship God nor share the gospel with their neighbours. Doing so is an offence. This pride and arrogance against God came because of advancement in technology. We feel we can do many things without God and thus become ‘god’ to ourselves. Technological advancement should make us to reference God the more because he is the revealer of knowledge.” Ayokunle noted that violence had become a daily occurrence in Nigeria. He said, “Beginning from the wickedness of armed robbers to religious terrorists, such as Al Qaida, Al Shabab, Boko Haram, ISIS, etc; we equally have the violence of banditry and Fulani herdsmen attacks everywhere in the nation. “People are slaughtered or kidnapped to be slaughtered or for ransom. Time will not permit me to talk about the wickedness of ritual killing for money making and fraudulent practices all over our world especially in our nation, Nigeria. People, including believers walk about half naked like insane people and even dress like that to houses of worship to pollute many. Promiscuity is everywhere. We have sinned against God and He has sent to our midst a fiery serpent!” Ayokunle said those who were godly had no need to fear any pandemic, reminding them of how God used the blood of the lamb to protect His people in Goshen when the angels of destruction were killing the firstborn of the Egyptians. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  