Samson Folarin The crisis rocking the Lagos State House of Assembly worsened on Tuesday as the offices of the sacked principal officers were sealed. The PUNCH learnt that those said to have been suspended indefinitely were also shut out of their offices. The House had on Monday ousted the Chief Whip, Rotimi Abiru (Somolu II), and the Deputy Majority Leader, Olumuyiwa Jimoh (Apapa II). Two other members, Moshood Osun (Lagos Mainland II) and Adewale Raheem (Ibeju/Lekki Constituency II), were suspended indefinitely for gross misconduct and insubordination. Our correspondent learnt that late on Monday, replacements were named for the two principal positions. The lawmaker representing Eti-Osa constituency I, Noheem Adams, was announced as the Deputy Majority Leader, while the lawmaker representing Apapa Constituency 1, Mojisola Miranda, became the new Chief Whip. The offices of the sacked and suspended members were shut on Tuesday, with an inscription, ‘Sealed’ placed on them. Workers and aides of the affected lawmakers were also prevented from accessing the offices. Sources told our correspondent that the crisis was not unconnected with a disagreement between a current senator, Sikiru Osinowo, aka Pepper, and the Assembly Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa. The affected lawmakers were reported to be loyalists of Osinowo, who was a former member of the Assembly before his election to the National Assembly. READ ALSO: Osun Assembly proposes death for killer, kidnappers The aide of one of the affected lawmakers confirmed this, but refused to give further details. “I am glad you have also heard. But I cannot say more,” the aide said. Another source told our correspondent that the Assembly was embarrassed by a report on the alleged expenditure of N2.4bn on the purchase of 80 vehicles for the 40 lawmakers in the last 11 months. “The information is that some of the affected lawmakers leaked sensitive documents pertaining to the purchase of the vehicles and they did not find it funny,” the source said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 