Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja The Lokoja division of the Federal High has ruled that Musa Wada of the People’s Democratic party, was not qualified to have contested the 2019 governorship election in Kogi State. The judgment was delivered by Justice D.U Okorowo, in the Suit NO: FHC/ABJ/CS/1147/2019 Femi Peter vs. PDP, INEC and Musa Atayi Wada, in Lokoja, on Thursday. The Suit, which was filed by Femi Peter, a legal practitioner and citizen of Kogi State, sought among other prayers, an order, disqualifying Musa Wada (the PDP candidate in the November 16, 2020 Kogi Governorship Election), from contesting the poll having presented false information/ false document to INEC in support of his candidacy. It was alleged that Musa Wada forged the Certificate of Primary Education which he presented to INEC together with his Form CF001. It was also alleged that he presented false information on oath when he stated in his Form CF001 submitted to INEC that he had never presented a forged certificate to INEC. The judge in his ruling explained that in proof of his claims, the Plaintiff supplied letters written by both Kwara and Kogi states ministries of Education confirming that Wada’s Certificate of Primary Education was not authentic. Also supplied were sample certificates issued in 1973, the same year which Wada claimed to have received his, the sample certificates clearly showed that Musa Wada’s copy bore no semblance in content and character (including serial number) as those genuinely issued by the then Kwara State Ministry of Education, in 1973. After analysing the avalanche of evidence provided by the Plaintiff, Justice D.U Okorowo, held that the Plaintiff succeeded in proving his case beyond reasonable doubt that the Certificate of Primary Education presented by Wada was a forged/false document. He also held that Wada lied in his form CF001 when he answered “NO” to the question whether he had ever presented a forged certificate to INEC. Consequently, the Court pursuant to Section 31(5) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) amongst other reliefs granted the plaintiffs prayers and disqualified Wada from contesting the 16th November 2019 Kogi State Governorship Election. By this decision, it goes on record that in the eyes of the law, the PDP did not participate in the 2019 Kogi State Governorship Election because it did not present a qualified candidate to contest the election. Recall that similar judgment was delivered last month by another Lokoja High Court. Justice John Olufemi of the State High Court 4 in a ruling had said that the primary conducted on 3rd September 2019 which produced Wada as the candidate of the PDP, was fraught with irregularities and cannot be said to be fair enough to produce a candidate. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 