Which sport will you rate as the best? While some people don’t consider chess as a sport, I think it is and it is not just a sport, it is a competitive one. I would have rated chess as the best sport but because it is not that popular among Nigerians I will go for something else. So, in the absence of chess I will either choose boxing or tennis. But because I have to rate one of the two, I go with boxing. I’m sure many would be surprise that I didn’t go for football which is very common but unfortunately I am not a football fan. And why did pick boxing as the best sport? Boxing is a sport where two evenly matched men would come face to face to settle whatever score they had in a contest of share physical strength and see who is better than the other and not just about their bragging. And they resolve their issues in the ring and after everything they hug and kiss and say to each other ‘that was a great fight’. I believe if there is anything as amazing as that I do not know in a world where people fight war and they kill to finish. People also need to understand the fact that when it comes to boxing, the battle is really not won in the ring itself. It takes years of conditioning of preparation for each bout. A big kudos to boxers even though I don’t box and I can’t even fight to save my life. Average Nigerian kids are known to love football, but you chose boxing. Did you play football as a kid? Of course I did. Like every other kids I played football and I did I was supposed to do and I had fun. I grew up in Amuwo Odofin Estate, Mile 2, Lagos. I had a very memorable childhood and football was definitely part of it even though as an adult now, I do not really consider myself as a fan of football. Which position did you play? I really can’t remember the position I played as a kid. Back then I wasn’t really much of a football person but I think I played as a midfielder because I remember I didn’t score too many goals but I did more of the passes. With that obviously I was a midfielder. Who is your favourite sportsperson? It’s a really tough one picking my favourite sportsperson but I will give it to Tiger Wood. He came back from those challenges and all sort of. Even when people already wrote him off he was able to rise again. That’s quite amazing. Though, we have quite a number of them that has done well and Tiger Wood is just one of them. If I am to pick my top three sportsperson, I would pick Tiger Wood, Serena Williams and Usain Bolt. Do you watch Nigeria league? Unfortunately I don’t watch Nigeria league and it is not just our league, I don’t watch any other leagues. Like I said earlier, football doesn’t really interests me. The only thing that interest me on television is when I see a known golfer. I love to watch them. I may not like golf that much but I will always prefer it to football any day except if Nigeria is playing. That doesn’t mean I don’t know the clubs in Nigeria league because I know a few of them. For instance, I know Kano Pillars. I don’t support any club in the country but if I am hoping that in the not too distance future if I get to start watching football, maybe I will pick interest in the Nigeria League. Which is your greatest sports moment? My greatest sports moment would definitely be Super Eagles victory in Africa. It was when we won the Africa Cup of Nations in 2013 and I also cherished the moment when we defeated Brazil at the Olympics in Atlanta ’96. It is also worth mentioning Tiger Wood’s comeback because it was really amazing for me. If there is truly reincarnation, would you love to be a footballer? With the kind of money that footballers make these days I would definitely want to be footballer. But since there is nothing like that and my son has been reincarnated in my form I’m trying to make sure that he plays football. It is very compulsory that he plays football because it is a must. (Laughs) Any form of civil disobedience as a child so that you can join your friends to play football? I was a raised by a single parent and sometimes my mum would lock us up in the house because she wouldn’t want us to go out after school because there was no way she could take three kids to the market but little did she know that I had an extra key and most of the time I would use my key to escape. Looking at that now I just laughed and I say I was just a ‘crook’ when I was a kid because why go through the rigors of duplicating a key just because you want to go out at will. Would you encourage your children to play football? Definitely I will and I am already looking for club to enroll my son the moment he clocks three. Aside the fact that there is money in football it has also changed lot of lives and a lot of ghetto youths who people would have written off are now people we celebrate and we thank God for their lives. In my own opinion, even though I am not a huge fan of football I love it when the Super Eagles play. Football brings about unity not just among people watching but the players themselves. One player cannot do it all alone, so for you to be a good footballer every unit actually matters. From the defence to the midfield and to the attackers who get the goals. They all know what to do and work as a team even when people celebrate strikers more these days, defenders learn to keep their cool and carry out their duties. Which athletes would you love to meet? I really want to meet Usain Bolt because he is someone that really inspired me. There was a General Pype song that I featured in with Naeto C, Sasha, Da Grin and Vector. The story behind that song was Usain Bolt. He inspired General Pype to write that song. And when he came to tell us about it I had to do a little research on Usain Bolt and I realized that for someone to set a record and keep breaking them consistently, it takes lot of hard work and I was fortunate to watch one of his documentaries and I got to know what happened behind the scene and I doff my hat for him. He is one of the best athletes that ever walked the face of the earth and it would be an amazing opportunity if I get to meet him because I’ve got lot of questions for him. Coronavirus siege on sports, your take? It is such an unfortunate event because a lot of people have lost their lives and this pandemic virus is attacking communal relationship among people and it is straining the unity among people. One of the major things that sport does is unity and this virus is attacking it. I saw the WWE some days ago and it was amazing that they fought in front of an empty crowd and this is something that has never happened before. A whole lot of major sporting activities have been cancelled. The virus is ravaging the world and countries are closing their borders and I am praying that may we never have to experience this kind of thing again. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 