Ife Ogunfuwa The Federal Government is set to sanction companies that failed to file their annual audit reports on data protection on before March 15, 2020. Nigeria Data Protection Regulation, which was created to provide a clear framework for the security and privacy of Nigerians, stated that a data controller processing the personal data of more than 2, 000 data subjects must submit a summary of its data protection audit not later than March 15. The Director, e-Government Development and Regulations Department at National Information Technology Development Agency, Dr Vincent Olatunji, while responding to The PUNCH enquiries, said the NITDA in conjunction with the Inspection General of Police special task team on IT regulations enforcement would embark on enforcement drive. According to him, many companies have not filed their annual data protection audit reports. Olatunji said, “The NITDA’s interest and approach to the NDPR implementation is to encourage compliance, hence we have embarked on a series of awareness campaigns aimed at encouraging compliance. “While many have still not filed, we will continue adopting necessary measures to improve compliance as this is beneficial to the data controller and enhances our digital economy development goals.” He explained that filing of an audit report did not necessarily translate to compliance because factors such as information systems governance, privacy-by-design and process improvement,  had to be considered. Olatunji added, “Organisations that have complied are mostly those entities that understand the value of regulatory compliance. “We are confident that more entities shall join the train as they begin to count the cost of non-compliance. “The recent issuance of reprimand and fine on the Lagos Internal Revenue Service for breach of personal data is a case in point.” He disclosed that the NITDA recorded higher compliance rate from many companies in the banking, telecommunications, manufacturing, the FMCG and services sectors than others. Meanwhile, the regulations stated that a breach of its provisions would be regarded as a breach of the NITDA Act. The NITDA Act provided that first offenders would be liable on conviction to a fine of N200,000 or imprisonment for one year or to both fine and imprisonment. And for a second and subsequent offence, such offender would be liable to a fine of N500,000 or to imprisonment for a term of three years or to both fine and imprisonment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   