Johnny Edward Odion Ighalo is set to be handed his second straight start, and 95th EPL appearance by Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in Manchester United Premier League clash against Everton following injury to striker Anthony Martial. Ighalo justified his first start on Thursday when he netted his first goal for the club in their 5-0 thrashing of Club Brugge in the UEFA Europa League round of 32-second leg clash at Old Trafford. Martial is United’s top-choice striker, but he failed to train on Saturday and so he is a serious doubt for the clash at Goodison Park. United have finally hit form, winning fives games amid a seven-match unbeaten streak that has seen them leak just one goal. The Red Devils are hoping to close in to within a point of rivals Chelsea who drew 2-2 with Bournemouth, and United are looking ominous in the race for the European spots. Ighalo, on loan till the end of the season from Chinese club Shanghai Shenhua, made his United debut in a 2-0 win at Chelsea on February 17. He also made a cameo appearance in a 3-0 bashing of Watford six days later. United are fifth on the Premier League table with 41 points from 27 matches. Meanwhile, Super Eagles forward Alex Iwobi is targeting a second Premier League win over Manchester United. The 23-year-old Nigeria international has netted only once in 18 Premier League appearances for the Toffees since his summer arrival from Arsenal on the transfer deadline day. Iwobi who is yet to score against Manchester United eyeing his second win over Red Devils despite facing them in seven Premier League games. , having secured victory over Ole Gunnar Solskjaer side only once in the 2-0 win defeat at the Emirates Stadium last season, precisely on 10 March 2019. Everton have won four of their last seven Premier League home games against Manchester United (D1, L2), including a 4-0 victory last season. Iwobi has netted two and assist in 22 matches across all competitions. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    