Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has called up duo FC Koln right-back Kingsley Ehizibue and Heracles striker Cyriel Dessers to the national squad for the first time for the quick-double 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying fixture against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone this month. Born in Germany to Nigerian parents, the 24-year-old Ehizibue, who already represented the Netherlands at youth level, joined the German top-flight side Koln from PEC Zwolle on a four-year contract in 2019. Dessers, 25, is the highest scorer in the Dutch Eredivisie with 15 goals and three in the cup competition. He has a Nigerian mother and a Belgian father but opted for the Super Eagles ahead of Belgium, the country of his birth. The squad comprises three goalkeepers, eight defenders, five midfielders and eight forwards. Rohr recalled Leicester City’s Kelechi Iheanacho to the team for the first time in six months since he was last invited for the friendly against Ukraine last September. Also listed for the qualifiers are team captain Ahmed Musa, vice-captain William Troost-Ekong and veteran defender Kenneth Omeruo. Nigeria, who comfortably lead Group L with maximum six points from their first two matches against Benin and Lesotho, host the Leone Stars at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba on March 27, before flying to Freetown to confront the Stars at the Siaka Stevens Stadium in the return fixture four days later. All invited players, as well as technical and administrative officials, are to report in the Delta State capital on March 23. Victory in both games will guarantee Nigeria a spot at the 33rd Africa Cup of Nations scheduled for Cameroon early next year, ahead of their away clash to Benin Republic in Porto Novo in June and a home tie against Lesotho early September. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    