In this interview with NIKE POPOOLA, the Chief Executive Officer, Cormart Nigeria Limited, Mr Martin Middernacht, speaks on the potential and challenges of the country’s manufacturing sector H ow will you describe the impact of the border closure by the government on the manufacturing sector? Negative impact, no. Positive impact, most probably yes. But to which extent? I don’t know. When your operation grows, it can have different reasons. Is it your quality, is it your marketing, is it your promotion? It can have different reasons. But I think for our type of product, it did not have too much impact. What impact will the recent increase in the Value Added Tax from five per cent to 7.5 per cent have on business operations? Increase in VAT is still recent, but that it will have an impact, for sure. But that it will have a long impact, I don’t think so. Maybe in the first quarter it will have an impact because it is two and a half per cent more, and it is basically out on the end consumer because the VAT is going from the production to the distribution to the final impact. So it will have an impact in the price increase, but because it is two and a half per cent, it is not that much. But within two, three months, that impact will be gone. How can the agriculture sector be developed? To develop and to ensure the survival of agriculture in Nigeria, it needs to be protected. When you see for example, the yields of maize overseas, when you have one hectare of land, you get up to eight, nine, 10 tonnes of maize per hectare. Here, we have maybe two tonnes. Same thing with the cow. So you have to bring some level of technology and experience in agriculture but you can only do that if you protect the players who are trying to stay in that industry. Do you feel the country has the adequate human capital that can be employed in the industrialisation process? We have great minds in the country. The challenge in this area is therefore the effect of the country’s poor educational system. Take for instance, where there are 40 vacancies and you are unable to find the people that could fit into those various roles. This is a wakeup call to the government to pay more attention in educating youngsters. However, at Cormart, we carefully select graduates for the role of management trainees. we train them for the period of six to twelve months and eventually retain them into different departments of our company. We nonetheless decide their distribution based on their strength which we must have figured out during the course of their training in different departments. Also, of recent, we did long service award ceremony for staff that have served the company for 15 to 25 years. How can the young workers maximise the opportunities in the sector? What I will like to say is that for the young people, you need to be patient. Miracles don’t exist, it is only hard work and believe in yourselves, and see the opportunities like we did from our garage in our house. See the opportunities and try to take them. We didn’t have the master plan when we started so many years ago that we wanted to do this or that. No. We fell over opportunities and we grabbed them. And of course, we had some setbacks and lost a lot of money here and there because everything cannot go right. But when we have eight things good out of 10, then we are okay. What have been the major challenges in the sector over the years? The major challenges are insufficient electrical power, finances and manpower. We have nonetheless been able manage these situations. We invest huge amount in having our own source of electricity. As regarding financial challenge, the finance cost is fluctuating between 11 per cent and 14 per cent in the bank. But we have been through the period of 25 per cent and 30 per cent financial cost, and it is very difficult for any business entity to survive such. Also, another issue is the availability of hard currency, which is forex. But I must say that in the last years, we have had stability and the economy is better. In the aspect of currency devaluation, the Nigerian government has been doing extremely well. Because, when you look at some countries such as Venezuela, that country is completely bankrupt and living on oil. So I must say that the Nigerian government did well. What are the opportunities you see in these challenges? Despite all challenges, we grow 30 per cent every year. That means there is a way out of all of these challenges if you do it the right way. Although we have some constraints, we believe in Nigeria. Nigeria is the biggest country in Africa, so the opportunities are there. How did Cormart start operations in Nigeria 40 years ago? All that you are seeing today about Cormart in Lagos and other locations started in our garage in Ilupeju. We eventually grew into what we are today. The secret behind the success is that, when we made profit we ensure to continue to invest it almost immediate. For example, that last warehouse we have now, if you ask me now, what are we immediately going to do with it? I don’t know immediately, but we know that the next project will come and now we know that we have space. We continue to look out for great opportunities in the country and make good use of them. Cormart has been on the forefront in impacting the lives of million Nigerians in various sectors. We specialise in industrial raw materials and chemicals. We import, produce, stock and distribute chemicals and other raw materials for the paint, confectioneries, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage industries. We also continue to expand our product lines to meet emerging market needs. Our business motive is backed with stringent processes that ensure consistency, reliability and dependability through technological excellence. We are also creating jobs for many Nigerians. Despite the fact that many companies have come and gone, yours has remained. What has helped Cormart to survive in the country in the past 40 years? If you look at the last 40 years, the development was gradual. Most of the companies, we started in the 90s. The creation of our own depot in the country began our biggest jump of growth; we invested in a country that had potential for business. From the investments we made, we started seeing increase in growth and volume of businesses, and this made the difference. When we started producing beverages, it was a gradual process and we later diversified and bought equipment to make Chivita. In terms of business, World Bank believes in trade liberalisation which means there is no government involvement. The World Bank said to Nigeria and other African countries that they don’t mind to give loans and facilities, but you have to take a step backward out for the private industry and sell off some of your state owned companies. In that period, we bought some of the state-owned companies and that gave us some increase of turnover. It all has to do with seeing opportunities and having the courage to invest in it. If you ask me, from the beginning was there any masterplan? No. There was only one strategy and that firm strategy we took. We were concerned about the availability of hard currency, then we said we should have our own source of forex. So we started activities which gave us export proceeds and that gave us access to forex. There was no masterplan as such when we started. Rather it was seeing the opportunities.  Just like in life, you must have doses of luck. What are your major goals? The goal is sustainability and not necessarily profit. We want to continue to be in existence even in 50 years to come, and to have made meaningful impact in the country and in the world at large. This is not only about the legacy, but also to ensure all staff still retain their jobs and opportunities for people looking to working with us. Moreover, our goal is to contribute to the industry development of others. We are like an enabler to others. If anybody wants to do something, we make it happen for them. When it comes to Nigeria to develop as an industry, Cormart is there and basically at the centre of it to make it happen. We want to have more lands, factories, facilities and a whole lot more. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  