Sunday Nwakanma, Umuahia The Federation of International Women Lawyers, FIDA, has presented to the wife of the Abia State Governor, Mrs Nkechi Ikpeazu, two minors, who are victims of serial abuse and molestation that occurred last year in a village in Umuahia South. The victims, aged three and four, were rescued from the abusive environment in April 2019 through the collaboration of FIDA and the Vicar Hope Foundation (the pet project of the governor’s wife) after a Good Samaritan drew attention to their plight. Recounting the incident, the immediate past state Chairman of FIDA, Mrs Chidinma Alozie, said the three-year-old victim had accused a particular suspect of abusing her on six different occasions, while her mother and father were away. FIDA declared that the parents of the victims were unfit to care for the children, hence the need to take them away from the abusive environment and to involve the police in the criminal investigation of the suspect. The eldest kid had undergone treatment at the Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia, before she and the other were taken to the home, where they were cared for and enrolled in school, courtesy of the Vicar Hope Foundation. The governor’s wife decried incidences of gender-based violence and sexual abuse of minors, saying the government and stakeholders should not tolerate the rising cases across the country and must come together to tackle it. Nkechi regretted that even after a year of manhunt, the police had yet to arrest the suspect, who was accused of molesting the children, stating that cases of child rights abuse required diligent investigation and prosecution. She added that it was the reason she visited the Commissioner for Police several months ago. The governor’s wife noted with sadness the upsurge in the activities of paedophiles across the country, while also decrying the carelessness of some mothers. She expressed shock at how parents had become lax in raising their children, forgetting that they would give account of whatever becomes of the children to their creator. Nkechi added that the children would remain in the care of the home and under the supervision of the Ministry of Women Affairs and the Gender Based Violence Focal Desk of the Vicar Hope Foundation until it could be ascertained that it was safe for them to return to their family.  Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 