Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The high cost of building in Nigeria has been the chief cause of the rising housing deficit being experienced across the country, operators in the built environment have said. According to them, this affordability issue confronts both public and private organisations that continuously grapple with the problem of building office complexes, hospitals and educational institutions. Speaking in Abuja recently at the introduction of Bitek wall blocks in Nigeria, the Chairman, Bitek Construction and Energetics Limited, Gbade Ojo, noted that one of the root problems of housing difficulties was that Nigeria had been reliant on only one of many major inputs in building construction. He said this reliance had been mainly on the use of cement and sandcrete blocks, otherwise known as block and mortar. Ojo, however, stated that to address this concern, operators in Nigeria’s construction industry entered into partnership with their counterparts in Russia to produce wall blocks suitable for the construction of durable and cost-effective buildings. He said, “The wall block is a Russian housing development technology and system that has provided high quality, affordable housing to millions of people in several countries of the world, especially in Russia, Asia, Latin America and Africa. “This building technology holds the answer to Nigeria’s seemingly endless housing deficit problems. It is a building system that will boost homeownership among Nigerians.” Ojo described the Bitek wall blocks as a Russian system for affordable housing delivery used to build durable and cost-effective buildings in Russia and other developed nations of the world. “This Russian technology is being introduced to Nigeria today as a result of the deepening bilateral relations between Nigeria and Russia and an outcome of our President’s visit to Russia,” he stated. Also speaking on the sidelines of the event, a realtor, Mr Udenna Orji, stated that with the introduction of the technology in Nigeria, there was hope for a reduction in the housing deficit. This, according to him, was because the technology would help reduce the cost of building, which is seen as the major reason for the increasing housing deficit in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 