Never fall for ‘special’ finance deals you can’t afford According to www.gobankingrates.com, promotional finance offers that provide zero or low interest rates on a big purchase might sound like a great deal until you wind up paying more than you expected. Those financing deals can ruin you if you’re only looking at the monthly payment. Go through the math and read all of the fine print. They get you in with the low monthly payments, but keep you paying for much longer than you anticipated. Never co-sign a loan you can’t afford Never co-sign on a loan for someone unless you have the means to pay it back fully. The fact is that you never know if the person will be able to pay every single payment, so it’s best to prepare yourself. Never live above your means One of the tenets of building wealth is to live below your means. Saving and investing should be your priorities so you can help pay for your children’s education and comfort, and live comparably well in retirement. Never rely only on cash when travelling Holding substantial cash when you’re traveling can invite unfortunate situations. You could lose it or be a victim of theft, which is not uncommon in certain areas. It’s wiser to deposit the specific amount of money you need on the trip and go with your debit card. That way, you can withdraw the money when you get to your destination and are ready to use it for what it’s intended for. Never spend money on gifts that no one needs Yes, those bi-annual sales of your favourite stores can be very enticing when everything is practically 75 per cent off. But, stocking up on those extra scarves, bath sets, candles or clothing pieces can be a waste of money if there isn’t an immediate need for them. Never be unintentional with your money It’s important to pay close attention to your money and your budget. Savings accounts need to be labelled for their intended purposes. For example, you might have a separate account for your emergency fund and another to save for the holidays. Accounts for long-term goals such as retirement or tertiary education should be kept separate and never be mingled with the shorter-term goals. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    