Nike Popoola Unity Bank Plc has introduced an Unstructured Supplementary Service Data banking in Nigeria’s three major languages which are Yoruba, Hausa and Igbo. A statement said the USSD transactions had gained traction over the past five years among bank customers, compelling Nigerian financial institutions to make it a core component of their e-payment solutions. It stated that the introduction of Nigerian languages was an added feature to the Unity Bank’s USSD Platform. By dialing the short code *7799# on any mobile phones, it stated, Unity Bank’s customers would have the option to continue their transactions in any of their preferred languages. The bank added that, “The upgrade in the features of the transaction of the platform is part of Unity Bank’s initiatives aimed at achieving an optimal level of interaction on the USSD banking channel. “It is targetted at market segments at the lower level of the pyramid intended to drive greater financial inclusion in the country as well as deploy more solutions for fast, efficient and convenient banking, while targetting the underbanked.” Commenting on the initiative, the Group Head, Retail, SME & E-Business, Unity Bank Plc, Olufunwa Akinmade, said that the solution would boost the existing e-payment channels available to the bank’s customers to further drive customer experience. He stated that it would also help to deepen mobile payment and contribute to Nigeria’s drive to meet the 80 per cent financial inclusion target this year. Akinmade stated, “What we have done is to expand the channel of access to our offerings. Nigeria’s teledensity, according to the Nigerian Communications Commission, is at 91.1 per cent as of 2019. This means that a solution like this will resonate with millions of Nigerians who are more comfortable transacting in their local languages.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  