Sola Shittu, Benin The Enogie of Ologbo, Chief Owen Akenzua, on Sunday shunned the peace meeting called by the Edo State Commissioner of Police, Mr Lawan Jimeta, to resolve the lingering crisis between Benins and Itsekiris in the oil rich Ologbo community in the Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area of Edo State. Enogie Akenzua had earlier accused the police of bias in the way and manner the crisis was being managed. At least, four lives have been lost in the communal clash reportedly caused by development levy  demanded by the Enogie from a property owner who was laying the foundation of a house in the community. The meeting, which was called by Jimeta, had the leader of the Itsekiri people, the Iyatshere of Warri, Chief Johnson Atseleghe, and his team in attendance. Secretary to the Enogie, Mr Friday Osazuwa, said besides the alleged bias of the police, the Enogie was also in the palace of the Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Ewuare II. “Another reason is that a fight by two persons resulted into this crisis. As we speak, our person is still in detention and the other man that fought with him was allowed to go free. “Also, we have two of our people in the mortuary, not buried. So, what exactly is the police coming to tell us? Nobody has been arrested. Is that not enough for us to boycott that meeting called by the police?” On his part, Atseleghe said the people had always lived peacefully until now. He said “The people of Ologbo had been living together in peace before a minor misunderstanding halted the peaceful co-existence of the people in the community. “The Iyatshere of Warri always comes from Benin kingdom because of their family ties and this relationship has never been subjected to any contest for over these centuries, not until this Enogie.” But the CP said no society could develop without peace, adding that he was disturbed by the unrest in the community, hence the need for the meeting. “We have all agreed that there is no community or society that will grow without peace. Without peace, you can’t even go out to get something to eat. Without peace, your children cannot go to school, without peace, nothing will happen even if there is anybody from outside that wants to come here and invest; an investor will only go to a place where there is peace,” he said. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  