Sunday Nwakanma, Umuahia Abia state is  set to impose tough measures  to contain   the threat of coronavirus. This was evident in a announcement by the  Inter-Ministerial Committee on Coronavirus stating that Governor  Okezie Ikpeazu had  approved the implementation of the measures proposed by the panel. They  include  closing  all public and private primary and secondary schools in the state and to ensure they conclude their examinations on or before March 27. All market associations in the state are to ensure that members provide running water and sanitisers for customers and traders in their shops within 48 hours or risk immediate closure, while operators of abattoirs in the  are also to comply with this directive or risk immediate closure. The committee also  said, “No burial, wedding and other ceremonies for the next  four  weeks should involve more than 30 persons and religious worship centres are to ensure that  not more than 50 persons attend any of their worship streams and programmes. “Henceforth, all tricycle operators in the state should carry only a maximum of two passengers per time and they must sit at the back with only the rider in front. “Mini-buses, popularly called Oke Bekee, are to carry only  five passengers per time while 14-seater buses are to carry  a maximum of five  passengers per time,  with none in front except the driver. It added, “All inter-state bus parks or terminals must procure and deploy digital thermometers for screening of inbound and outbound passengers”. The government also ordered that “all hotels and hospitality establishments in the state must screen guests/staff and provide hand sanitisers before they are lodged or allowed access,  and  suspicious guests are to be reported immediately.” The state government advised residents to shelve non-essential travels till  further notice. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 