Lara Adejoro A professor of Medicine and Endocrinology at the College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Prof. Olufemi Fasanmade, has said that doctors amputate at least one leg weekly due to diabetes complications. He noted that diabetes is on the increase because the population is getting older, poverty is increasing and people are getting fatter. He said one in 10 adults in Nigeria has diabetes. Speaking in an interview with PUNCH HealthWise, Prof. Fasanmade said there were about 3-5 million people with diabetes in Nigeria, warning that the number might double over the next two decades. “Every year, the number keeps increasing and Africa has the highest rise of diabetes because our population is getting older, poverty is increasing and people are getting fatter. “From all the projections, we will be having double of that number in the next 20 years; we will be having 10-20 million people with diabetes.” Fasanmade said diabetes is a major public health condition, yet it does not get the attention it deserves. “The number of people with diabetes in Nigeria is much more than the number of people that have HIV, TB and malaria typhoid put together. “If you have five million people with the condition, then it is a very major public health condition because there are some states in Nigeria that don’t have up to five million people. “Those that have HIV/AIDS are just a third of that number, yet it [diabetes] does not get the attention it deserves.” The consultant physician said the risk factors of diabetes in adults are obesity, prolonged sitting, lack of exercise, alcohol, and smoking. “Other risk factors include those who are already hypertensive. Once a person has hypertension, if you check the blood sugar, you will see that it is already going high. “So, if you go to the hypertension clinic, 60 percent of them have diabetes and about 50 percent of diabetics have hypertension.” Explaining further, Fasanmade said people die almost daily as a result of diabetes. “In this hospital [LUTH] and many other teaching hospitals, we amputate one leg, at least, per week. Usually, two or three per week because of diabetes. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  