Kamarudeen Ogundele Abuja mothers took to the streets of Abuja on Saturday to seek stiffer punishments against child molestation. They carried placards with various inscriptions such as, “See something, say something,” “Say no to child abuse,” and “Stop the silence.” The street walk organised under the banner of Abuja Moms Empowerment Foundation was part of the activities to mark this year’s United Nations Women’s International Day. The president of the foundation, Mrs Happiness Ani, urged parents and guardians to always speak out against child molestation and report cases at appropriate quarters. She accused the police of contributing to the rising cases of the “heinous crime” across the country by frustrating parents when they come to the police station to report cases. Ani said, “Stiffer punishment is what we are seeking. Enough of people asking people reporting cases at police stations to forget the case. That’s the challenge that we have. “These people (police) who are supposed to be protecting us are saying ‘don’t worry, let’s cover the  case up.” She called on the Federal Government to ensure that relevant laws were amended to provide stiffer penalties for perpetrators of the crime to serve as a deterrent to others. “We are seeking government to mete out stiffer punishments to the people doing this. These days, paedophiles are not afraid of going to the social media to say a four-year-old looks like somebody they want to ‘pound’ sexually. “Let the policemen be sensitised that this is not a matter that should be handled with kid gloves. What we want is for child molestation to stop and for people to know that it is their right to protect their children and expose the culprits.” A member of the foundation, Mrs Evangeline Iwenjiora, urged the government at all levels to support the fight against child molestation. Another member, Mrs Peace Nwaorga, advised parents to be close to their kids and be sensitive enough to identify behavioural changes in their children, especially when they are around some people. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer for FCT Command, Anjuguri Manzah, a Deputy Superintendent, challenged parents to report compromised police officers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 