Nike Popoola The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Linkage Assurance Plc, Mr Daniel Braie,  has assured the insurance brokers that the company will meet the new capital base of N10bn mandated by the National Insurance Commission. Braie said the company was not looking outside for funding to meet the recapitalisation requirement, but that it had the internal capacity to do so. He disclosed this during the February members evening of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers in Lagos. The managing director said that Linkage Assurance would conclude its recapitalisation process on or before the end of second quarter of 2020. He assured the brokers that they were dealing with an underwriter that was financially strong and had the capacity to meet its obligations as and when due. According to him, Linkage, as of the end of 2019, had a shareholders’ fund of N28bn. He said that being the first underwriter to host the brokers this year and having also achieved that feat in 2019, underscored the regard and valued partnership the company had with the brokers. He stated, “We believe that the brokers are our genuine partners and that is why we continue to be the first to host this programme. “Linkage is also the first underwriting company to extend this partnership to other area committees of the NCRIB outside Lagos. NCRIB Area Committees hosted in 2019 are in Abuja, Port-Harcourt, Kano, and we are continuing.” Braie assured the brokers that Linkage would not take the partnership for granted, and, it had put in place a seamless system to ensure that commissions and claims were processed speedily. “From the way we have structured our operations, you don’t need to see the managing director for your claims to be paid, and from anywhere we are in this world we can authorise payment,” he assured the brokers. During the event, the NCRIB members, who unanimously commended Linkage Assurance for its professionalism and response time, Edited gave their endorsement. Linkage Assurance, at the close of business in 2019 recorded a gross written premium of N6.52bn as against N5.39bn during the same period in 2018, indicating a 21 per cent increase, the managing director disclosed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 