Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The National Information Technology Development Agency on Thursday announced that Internet fraudsters were creating websites to defraud unsuspecting citizens as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. According to the agency, the fraudsters had deployed various phishing tricks to attract internet users. The Head of Media, NITDA, Hadiza Umar, however, stated that the agency was doing everything possible to shut down the identified websites and bring those behind them to book. She said, “In NITDA’s efforts at ensuring a safe and secure Nigerian cyberspace, the agency’s Computer Emergency Readiness and Response Team identified a number of websites using various phishing tricks to attract Internet users. “One of such tricks is misinforming the public that Federal Government has ordered weekly payment of allowances to all citizens above the age of 18 for observing the ‘stay at home’ directive. “It then requires the user to complete an online form with the personal information including bank details for the payment to be effected.” The agency stated that while it was doing everything possible to shut down the websites identified as well as sanction those behind them, the general public should disregard and report any such websites to NITDA for necessary action. “As a general precautionary measure, Internet users are advised not to give out their personal information to anyone online and should avoid clicking unknown links,” Umar stated. She said Internet users should also disregard offers requesting for their bank details and should know what to do when they became victims of cybercrime. The agency called on all well-meaning Nigerians to support the Federal Government in its efforts at containing the spread of COVID-19 across the country. It encouraged citizens to strictly adhere to recommendations given by health experts and follow updates from relevant agencies handling the outbreak. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 