The President of the Nigerian Computer Society, Prof. Adesina Sodiya, speaks on the need for the government and the private sector to support the development of hardware and software in the country in this interview with IFE OGUNFUWA One of the ways the government intends to deepen broadband penetration is to incentivise indigenous Original Equipment Manufacturers? What do you think about this move? The incentives for hardware manufacturers were some of our inputs as a society. If we are talking about broadband penetration, utilisation is really a factor. We must come up with policies and programmes that will make the available bandwidth to be fully utilised. We discovered that the available bandwidth is not fully used that was why we tried as much as possible to push for the creation of incentives for organisations that are interested in setting up phone factory in Nigeria. We have been saying over the years that in the area of hardware, we have not really been doing well. Some of our organisations that are into hardware development in the past are not really doing well today – companies like Omatek and Zinox that are producing computers. We have been thinking of how to encourage these organisations. We have been telling them that when it comes to local content development, the products that are coming out from these organisations must be able to compete favourable with products from other international organisations. Until we get to that level, we cannot blame any organisation that is interested in acquiring products from international companies. As a nation, it is long overdue that we have our own products. With our population, level of tele-density in Nigeria today and the number of people that are having mobile devices, we don’t have indigenous phone production companies in this country. As part of our discussion with the ministry, there must be incentives for the production of phones and other consumables. When the incentives are very good, that is the only way we can grow and for some of these industry experts to show interest in that area. Whether the incentives we have at the moment are enough is another issue, because there are other considerations in setting up an IT hardware company. We have to look at the enabling environment  – power supply and availability of other resources that will be needed in the production of these hardware devices. I think that is a good way to start. What we have agreed is that from time to time, we will be reviewing some of these policies so that if there are some peculiar needs from any organisation or individual that is interested in setting up an OEM, the government can give further considerations. Can this kind of incentive be extended to the production of indigenous software as well? For now, we are looking at areas where we are having challenges. In the areas of software development, innovation and creating efficient and sustainable software products, we don’t have any problem. In fact, one of the products our indigenous company is coming out with can compete well with foreign software. The only challenge our indigenous software industry has today is poor patronage. We want increased patronage of the government and financial organisations. You are aware that some of our banks are still using products from abroad. There are so many sectors that are still depending on foreign software. There is nothing they can get from foreign software that our indigenous software companies cannot provide. Some of these banks depend fully on foreign software products while some of them acquire some components of their software applications from indigenous companies but they largely depend on foreign software. The only challenge is for our products to be fully accepted by the government and some of the local organisations and for our products to also be used and trusted by them. Why do you think Nigerian organisations don’t trust indigenous software applications? When we started about 10 years ago, some of these international software products were doing better than the local ones but things have changed now. The services some of these organisations are offering are very sensitive and they are skeptical about changing completely to a system they have not used before. It is not that these applications are not good but we advise them to do parallel implementation, which will be at a cost. It means these companies will be using the foreign software alongside the indigenous ones. Some of these companies think that why will they want to increase the cost of their overhead when they can keep using the foreign ones. What we are saying is that the money that is supposed to come to our people and grow our nation is being taken out of the country. If we have a product that is serving the same purpose as the one from other countries, why will you want to get the foreign software? We will continue to encourage them. Our indigenous software applications are doing very well now. Initially, they didn’t want to believe in Remita from SystemSpecs. It is so reliable and being sought after from outside the country. How will you rate the implementation of the executive order on the use of local content in public procurement, especially in the use of indigenous software applications? The current position is still not satisfactory to the professional body because we still have situations where the software products being sought for by these agencies are not from our indigenous organisations. There was a case we handled last year, where one of our corporate members bided for a contract. There were other two or three international organisations, which also bided for the same contract. It was a Federal Government job. We had to step in and do something about it. We thought it will be better to give the indigenous company a trial. Ordinarily, we expected that Ministries, Departments and Agencies will show total interest in our local software applications. As a society, they should let us know if they have challenges with the software and we will take it up but if they are not giving us any chance, we will not know areas of improvement. We won’t know if they are doing well or not. To the best of our ability, Nigeria has come of age in the area of software production. We need to continue to engage the government to ensure that they consider indigenous software products first before any other one. How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected the operations of ICT firms in the country? Every human life is priceless and deserves every care and everything we need to do to sustain it. I can’t say we have not tried as a nation but we could have taken more proactive steps. Initially, when we started to hear about coronavirus, we were doing things normally as if it will not get to us when a country like China has been on lockdown since January this year. We didn’t show enough resistant and create enough counter-measures. What Lagos State Government is doing is really commendable. We pray that we come out of this situation as fast as possible. We are really moving towards a state of lockdown. It has affected the supply chain of IT products and affected the services in other domains. I called one of our members that sell computer products and he told me that for almost three weeks now, he has not imported any product. Of course, this also shows that some of our corporate organisations that are providing support services are affected. We have postponed meetings and workshops because of the pandemic. One good thing is that IT has become an enabler for doing some of the things we are achieving in spite of the isolation. Are there enough e-learning platforms for students who have been asked to stay at home to keep learning? When I was discussing with someone about two days ago, Computer Professional Registration Council of Nigeria had a programme last week and I advised that the programme be held online so that everyone can be safe. This will create opportunities for us because there are many platforms for e-learning already. However, human beings find it difficult to change from one situation to another. The platforms are there for learning. I have a ward schooling in Russia and about two weeks ago, they were told the universities will be shut but that the classes will continue online. They have only prevented them from coming to school but the university is still running and communicating with the students online. But in our own situation, the FG has ordered tertiary institutions to go back home to reduce the spread of the virus. The administrators of these institutions should take a step further, because the government cannot continue to do everything, by making it possible for the institutions to contact their students and continue their education by learning online. If we say school is closed and nothing is done, students will go home and become idle. People at that level must be engaged in something. We also want to appeal to the government to direct the schools to create platforms where there will be continuous learning while our children are at home. What are the achievements of the collaboration between NCS and Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board? When this current JAMB registrar came onboard, he had a mind that the examinations should be fully automated.  What he did at that time was to get in touch with NCS that we should nominate technical advisors that will be ad hoc staff and provide technical support in many states. That was the first area of engagement with JAMB. Of course, that has really brought a good relationship and collaboration with JAMB. With our expertise, JAMB’s processes have improved. The interest of this registrar is that JAMB examination can be trusted and his intent is that it will get to a time where universities will not need to conduct post-UTME examination again. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  