Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Monday arraigned the former Head of Service, Winifred Oyo-Ita, and two others before a Federal High Court, Abuja, for alleged N471m fraud. The two others are one Garba Umar and Ubong Effiok. They were arraigned alongside six companies before Justice Taiwo Taiwo over 18 counts of fraud, failure to fully disclose assets and money laundering. The alleged offences are contrary to 15(2)(a), (b) &(d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 and section 27(3)(a) of the EFCC Act, 2004. They are punishable under sections 14(1)(b) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2004; 15(3)(4) the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 and section 27(3)(c) of the EFCC Act, 2004. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges. Justice Taiwo Taiwo granted them bail following an oral application moved by counsel for Oyo-Ita, Paul Erokoro (SAN), and A. C. Ananaku and Okechukwu Ajunwa for Umar and Effiok, respectively. Justice Taiwo said he granted bail to the defendants because of the coronavirus pandemic and their presumption of innocence until proved otherwise. He also acknowledged that the prosecutor, Mohammed Abubakar, did not object to the oral application. Justice Taiwo said, “The coronavirus pandemic is something that must be on the minds of all of us. Social distancing is being preached, I shall therefore grant bail to the defendants not only based on coronavirus but also on Administration of Criminal Justice Act.” The judge granted Oyo-Ita N100m bail and two sureties in like sum. The other defendants were granted N50m bail and two sureties in like sum. The judge said the two sureties must be in like sum each and must be residents of the Abuja metropolis. He added that one of them must be a civil servant not below level 17 in the federal service, ministry, department or parastatal while the other should tender proof of being able to pay the bail bond and depose to an affidavit of means. He also ordered the defendants to deposit their passports with the registrar of the court. Pending when they meet the bail conditions, Justice Taiwo ordered the release of the defendants to their respective lawyers for seven days beginning from Tuesday (today). He said, “The defendants shall report between 10am and 12 noon daily for the next seven days when they are expected to have met the bail conditions. “They shall report to the office of the EFCC prosecutor daily to show they are in Abuja. If they fail to perfect their bail condition, they should be remanded in EFCC custody. “They are released to counsel in view of coronavirus pandemic. The lives of defendants shall not be put in unnecessary danger,” he said. Specifically, the EFCC accused Oyo-Ita of being a sole signatory to a Zenith Bank account of a company, Frontline Ace Global Services Limited, which allegedly received N20m and N25m from the Ministry of Power sometime in April 2010 while serving as a Deputy Director in the ministry. The EFCC alleged that the Power Holding Company of Nigeria paid N1.4m and N4.7m at various times into the same account. The charge also disclosed that the former HoS allegedly took possession of an aggregate sum of N62.2m in her Zenith Bank Account as estacodes for journeys not embarked on. She also allegedly received N30m for conference fees, estacodes and ticket fees for journeys not embarked on. The EFCC also accused Oyo-Ita, Effiok and a firm, Prince Mega Logistics Limited of taking possession of N15m from Titus Tomsin as duty tour allowance for journeys not embarked on, while being the HoS. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  