Anna Okon Stakeholders in the maritime sector have maintained that the presence of tank farms in Apapa is unhealthy and risky for the area and the economy at large. The Chairman, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria, Mrs Vicky Haastrup, made this observation while speaking during an industry reception organised in honour of the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Dr Bashir Jamoh. Hasstrup said the concentration of tank farms within the port environment posed a threat to port business. She said, “We are sitting on a keg of gun powder. It is only in Nigeria that I see tank farms sitting in the middle of a city. “We have almost 63 tank farms sitting right in Apapa. Can you imagine if just one of the tank farms blows up? We need the tank farms to be relocated. Please help us inform appropriate authorities to relocate the tank farms far away from the port area,” Haastrup stated. Also speaking, the former President, Nigerian Shipowners Association, Aminu Umar, urged Jamoh to address insecurity in Nigeria’s maritime domain and build indigenous capacity. “One of the issues that have been on the front burner of shipping is piracy. We cannot discuss enough the damage piracy is doing to us presently in all the sectors of the maritime industry. We will love the DG and his management to put this as their top priority and promote, protect the interest of indigenous shipowners,” he said. On her part, Chairman, Shipowners Forum, Mrs Margaret Onyema-Orakwusi, urged the NIMASA boss to revive the moribund Nigerian Maritime Expo to enable Nigeria to showcase the potential of the maritime industry to investors. A former Minister of Interior and Chairman, Integrated Oil and Gas Limited, Captain Emmanuel Iheanacho, urged Jamoh to focus more on the regulatory mandate of the agency instead of revenue generation, while ensuring that the guidelines set up for the disbursement of the CVFF were fair and equitable to assist indigenous operators. Responding, Jamoh said the task ahead in repositioning the agency was not an easy one, calling on stakeholders to collaborate and support his administration. He said NIMASA under his watch would work within its mandate to meet the aspirations of stakeholders. He said, “We have our own mandate. We need your assistance and support to be able to actualise this mandate. “Your support, understanding and guidance are always going to be our watchword.  I cannot do it alone. Join me and support me to get these things right to reposition the agency for the betterment of us all. I assure you we will do everything possible not to fail you.” The reception was attended by several major industry stakeholders such as shipowners, terminal operators, maritime lawyers, shipping agents and women groups. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 