Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Men of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested a fake naval officer, Azeez Ali, for allegedly mutilating the private parts of a 42-year-old man, Sunday Amoo. It was gathered that Ali, during an argument, used a military Jack knife to mutilate Amoo’s private parts, which resulted in multiple deep cuts. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, in a statement on Sunday, said Ali, who impersonated a naval officer, was arrested around Berger bus stop in the Bariga area of Lagos. He said, “On March 14, 2020, around 1.50am, operatives from the Bariga Police Station arrested one Azeez Ali. The suspect, who impersonated a naval officer, is alleged to have used a military Jack knife to cut the private parts of one Sunday Amoo over a mere argument, resulting in multiple deep cuts. “The victim was taken to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital and is responding to treatment. An investigation is ongoing. The suspect will be charged.” Meanwhile, the police have arrested seven illegal immigrants, who were suspected to be drug peddlers at the Super bus stop in the Abule-Egba area of the state. The suspects, who were arrested by the patrol team of the Oke Odo Police Station around 10.30am on Saturday, claimed that one Okechukwu from Ghana, who promised to take them to Libya, dropped and abandoned them in Nigeria. Elkana, who said investigation was ongoing, noted that three Ghanaian passports and some illicit drugs were recovered from the suspects. The PPRO said two serial shop burglars were also arrested on Friday, March 13, 2020, in the Ikorodu area of the state. The suspects, Julius Peter and Paul Ozurumba, were apprehended after a series of reports by shop owners and sustained monitoring by policemen attached to the Ikorodu Police Station. READ ALSO: Eight nabbed for killing police inspector in Ogun According to Elkana, electrical fence wires, clothes, shoes, bags, Ankara fabrics and laptops, among others, and shop-breaking implements were recovered from the suspects. He added that the suspects confessed to the crime and would be charged upon the completion of investigation. Similarly, a 28-year-old man, Sola Oyesanwo, was arrested for allegedly defiling a 15-year-old girl in the Itamaga area of Ikorodu. It was gathered that the suspect inserted his fingers in the private parts of the victim in his shop. Elkana stated that the suspect confessed to the crime and would be charged. He said, “On March 13, 2020, around 4pm, the mother of the victim reported at the Ikorodu Police Station that her 15-year-old daughter was defiled by one Sola Oyesanwo. “The victim was taken to hospital for treatment and forensic examination. The suspect has been arrested and he has confessed to the crime.” Meanwhile, a notorious cult member, Segun Ariyo, said to have been terrorising the residents of Ikorodu, has been arrested by the police. According to the PPRO, Ariyo, who is a member of the Aiye Confraternity, had been on the wanted list of the police for the killing of several rival cult members. He added that Ariyo and his gang members were responsible for a series of armed robbery incidents in Ikorodu and its environs. He said, “On March 12, 2020, around 6pm, acting on credible intelligence, operatives from the Ikorodu Division, with the support of community policing volunteers, arrested one Segun Ariyo, aka Sangalo. “The suspect is a vicious and notorious member of the Aiye Confraternity, who had been on the police wanted list for serial killing of rival cult members. An investigation is ongoing and the suspect will be charged.” Elkana added that the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered the immediate transfer of all the cases to the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department, Yaba, for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 