’Femi Asu Central Horizon Gas Company has collaborated with the Rivers State Government to improve gas development in the state. The firm said it recently organised a workshop with the Rivers State Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources to identify opportunities for socio-economic development and widespread industrialisation through increased use of natural gas as a sustainable energy solution. The Managing Director, CHGC, Mr Bolaji Osunsanya, reiterated the organisation’s commitment to positively impact the lives of individuals and industries. He was quoted in a statement as saying, “The CHGC is the ideal partner to support the Rivers State Government in actualising its socio-economic goal, as it leverages its decade-long experience to deliver natural gas as a cheaper, safer and environmentally-friendly energy source, to catalyse rapid industrial development and enhance the state’s economy. “We are committed to working in synergy with all stakeholders to expand our footprints to other locations within the state, in order to deliver value-adding energy solutions to industries, thereby boosting their global competiveness.” The CHGC, a joint venture between Axxela Limited, the Rivers State Government and TSL Logistics Limited, is a major gas distribution company situated in the South-South region of Nigeria, according to the statement. The Rivers State Commissioner for Energy and Natural Resources, Dr Peter Medee, was quoted as saying that the Rivers State Gas Master Plan would boost industrialisation, create employment opportunities, and increase the revenue profile of the state. He said, “We will continuously engage development partners and investors to take advantage of the availability of gas in the state and efficiently conduct business transactions. “Rivers State is a safe haven for investment and we are ready to partner the private sector to develop the state’s enormous natural resources.” According to the statement, the CHGC is a special purpose vehicle set up to develop natural gas distribution infrastructure to enable energy access to industrial and commercial consumers in the Trans-Amadi Industrial Area of Port Harcourt, Greater Port Harcourt Area, Reclamation Road, and Moscow Road, among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 