Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt The Vice-Chancellor of the Rivers State University, Prof. Nlerum Okogbule, has said that there was no hiding place for cultists in the institution, as security measures had been put in place to deal with the vice. Okogbule, who spoke with journalists in Port Harcourt on Thursday, explained that apart from the increase in security presence on campus, the university had also ensured that all rules against cultism and other vices were enforced. He stated that the university was also gathering intelligence from its host community to enable security personnel tackle cultists. Okogbule said, “There is no hiding place for cultists in the institution and we have done well in that area. We are relating well with the community to ensure we get intelligence that will help us to fish out any cultist that plans to make the community a safe haven. “There are some aspects I will not disclose because they are security issues, but I will only say that we have more presence of security personnel on the ground. There are rules in the university and we are bent on enforcing the rules.” On the complaint by some students over the amount paid as school fees, the vice chancellor disclosed that the institution was charging lowest fees compared to other tertiary institutions in the Niger Delta region. Okogbule said, “The management is also thinking about the welfare of the students. Based on this, we are not considering the option of reducing school fees. Let us be realistic, people are paying N200, 000 and above in other universities, but we are not doing that here.” He listed one of the challenges facing the institution as epileptic power supply, which he said forced the university to spend more in generating electricity despite paying bills to the power distribution company. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  