Sodiq Oyeleke The Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria in Lagos State has urged members of the House of Representatives to consider donating their newly-purchased cars to fight against coronavirus. This was contained in a statement signed by the President of the MSSN Lagos, Dr Saheed Ashafa, on Saturday. The students-based body said the donation would serve as an unforgettable legacy for upcoming leaders in the country. Ashafa said giving the cars out for logistics would also complement the efforts of their state governments, ministers, and philanthropists who already made donations. He suggested that each lawmaker should take their cars to their constituencies. READ ALSO: Coronavirus: Print more naira notes, Tinubu tells FG He said, “The coronavirus has come to show us the essence of sacrifice, humanity, and humility. Our lawmakers should also follow this line. Leaders in the country must find ways to assist the masses and donate to the fight against the virus. “For instance, lawmakers in Nigeria could show leadership beyond the word of mouth by sacrificing their newly-purchased exotic cars during this pressing period for logistics and other purposes that they could be used for. “There is absolutely no better time to know a good leader than now. Donating these cars will boost Nigerians confidence in Nigeria’s democracy. It would have saved a state like Lagos millions of naira spent on purchasing new vehicles.” The PUNCH reports that the legislators had at an executive (closed-door) session on February 5, 2020, resolved to purchase 400 units of the car. On March 27, The PUNCH also exclusively reported that the House of Representatives had taken delivery of the Toyota Camry 2020 model cars acquired for members as official cars, otherwise called utility vehicles. But Chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Benjamin Kalu, who confirmed the delivery of the cars, said the HoR was not distributing the cars yet. On its part, the MSSNLagos said its members are ready to complement the state government’s effort to curb the community transmission of coronavirus through “optimised enlightenment and advocacy”. While commending the proactiveness of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, he appealed to Lagos residents to obey the government’s stay-at-home directive.