Anna Okon shipowners and other operators in the Nigerian shipping sector are making concerted efforts to ensure that they are protected from contacting the Coronavirus. This is even so as the first case of the noble COVID-19 was reported in Lagos on Thursday. The President, Shipowners Association of Nigeria, Dr Mkgeorge Onyung, confirmed this to our correspondent in an exclusive phone interview on Friday. He said ahead of its March meeting, the association was disseminating information to  members on its Whatsapp and other social media platforms, educating them about the precautions to take to protect themselves against the virus. Onyung said in addition to this, individual ships owned by Nigerians were observing the mandatory safety measures established by the Federal Ministry of Health. He said, “We are educating our members about necessary preventions, including places to travel to and things to avoid. “Besides, the maritime sector is under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Health’s Port Health Department. “There are laid down safety procedures adopted by the Port Health to check influx of diseases. One of them is that before passengers are allowed to board or leave a vessel, the port health officials must carry out examination on the vessel and also screen its occupants. “Coronavirus is not the only airborne infectious disease, there are numerous others and our port health department has over the years been effective in checking their spread.” He advised operators in the industry to adhere strictly to the safety measures prescribed by the health officials. He said people must at this time, heighten their sense of personal hygiene and limit their physical contact with others, especially the ones showing symptoms of any kind of infection. Another leading player in the shipping sector and former President, Nigerian Shipowners Association, Aminu Umar, said, as a precaution, shipowners “have all activated our infectious disease preventive procedure policy as recommended and approved by our P&I Club.” A statement from the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, had indicated that an Italian citizen, who entered Nigeria on February 25 from Milan was diagnosed with the COVID19 virus. According to the minister, the patient who was in Nigeria on a brief business visit, fell ill on February 26 and was transferred to the Lagos State Biosecurity Facilities for isolation and testing. The Lagos State Ministry of Health said in a statement that the COVID19 infection was confirmed by the Virology Laboratory of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, part of the laboratory network of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. Meanwhile, a freight forwarder and the coordinator, Save Nigeria Freight Forwarders, Dr Osita Chukwu, has berated the Federal Government for not taking precautions way ahead of  the virus hit. He reasoned that since the Italian patient came through the airport, that should have been the first place of detection. He said, “We play too much in this country. This virus has been around since December and many countries had taken measures to ensure it does not spread to them, but in Nigeria, save for setting aside millions of naira to fight Coronavirus, nothing practical was done. “If something was done, the Italian could not have been able to cross the airport into the country.” He expressed disappointment that Nigeria had already had a recent tough battle with Lassa fever, saying that Coronovirus was a serious disease which even China, with its advanced medical infrastructure had been struggling to contain. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    