Anna Okon The Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria and freight forwarders are currently engaged in a war of words over the legality of the Practitioners Operating Fee. Recall that the Federal Government had approved the payment of the PoF for cargo clearing at the nation’s seaports. The fees include N2,000 for any 40-foot container and N1,000 for 20-foot container. The implementation commenced on March 4, after the expiration of three weeks ultimatum given by the CRFFN for operators to prepare. The fee collection had reportedly hit a brick wall after freight forwarders objected to it. It was gathered that freight forwarders had gone ahead and instituted a law suit against the payment of the fee, saying that it was illegal. They also contended that the CRFFN was not a government agency, and that it had been hijacked by the government. They argued that the CRFFN was meant for the practitioners, but that it was now being run like a government agency. “The minister shouldn’t be the one to appoint the chairman as we saw during the last election, and the registrar too was imposed by the government; these two people are not even core practitioners,” one of them who pleaded anonymity said. He added, “We are waiting for them at the port; let them even try and say they want to collect it. The terminal operators are also being careful; don’t be deceived, there is nobody that would be ready to collect that money. If the terminal operators collect it, what is their percentage?” The POF does not favour anyone because the money is going straight into the Treasury Single Account  of the Federal Government, the practitioners argued further. One of them, Dr Fred Oscar, said the best way to appoint the CRFFN board would have been to do an election among freight forwarders so that they could select their members. He said the people there were not freight forwarders and did not understand the plight of freight forwarders. “We are getting multiple alerts every day; from the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control and many others. We don’t know which one to pay. “The only thing that concerns the CRFFN is to collect the PoF. If they were freight forwarders, they will understand that these multiple alerts impose a huge burden on our businesses.” Freight forwarders said the council had disappointed them, adding that they did not think of how to revive the industry but only to collect the PoF. They accused the council of not implementing any reforms since inauguration, saying that freight forwarders had not felt their impact; they had not addressed the freight forwarders but they just came and started agitating for the PoF payment. They claimed that they had not received any invoice from terminal operators asking them to pay the PoF. Responding, the Director of Enforcement, CRFFN, Basil Opara, said the implementation of the PoF was going on smoothly. He said the operators had no choice but to comply as lack of compliance would mean they could not move their cargo out of the seaport. He added that the only challenge with the scheme was the online platform that could lose network connection for hours sometimes. Opara said, “It is an online payment, so there is no question of saying some people are protesting that they will not pay. If they don’t pay, they cannot move their cargo out of the seaport. “The only challenge with the process is with the platform that can sometimes lose internet connection just as it is usual with the Automated Teller Machine.” On the role of the terminal operators, he said they had little or nothing to do with the PoF collection as the practitioners were required to pay the fee and present the receipt before they could move their cargo. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   