Samuel Awoyinfa The Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria has urged the Federal Government to come to the aid of the union by deploying test kits such as infrared thermometers to motor parks in order to control the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The National Publicity Secretary of the union, Alhaji Abdulrahman Amusan, made the appeal in Lagos. He, however, said the association had directed state chairmen to provide hand sanitisers at all motor parks under them to contain the further spread of the deadly virus among commuters and other motorists nationwide. Amusan said that the union had done a lot in educating and sensitising its members to the danger of being exposed to the virus and the need to prevent its spread. He said, “We need protective kits such as infrared thermometers from the Federal Government to check commuters. The national leadership of RTEAN has directed members nationwide to provide sanitisers in and around all our motor parks across the federation. “We urge commuters to cooperate when the union officials direct them to sanitise their hands before boarding any commercial vehicle.” The RTEAN spokesman, who also doubles as the Secretary of the Lagos Chapter, urged members of the union to be conscious of their health and increase the state of hygiene in their vehicles and parks. According to him, all members have been directed on what to do and the contact to call if they notice symptoms of the virus in any passenger. He said that the union was committed to doing all within its powers to contain the spread of the virus in motor parks. Amusan said that the union had embarked on massive education and sensitisation of its members across the country to the coronavirus pandemic. He called for collaboration between the Federal Health Ministry and the union to contain the spread in the country at various motor parks.. He added that the outbreak of coronavirus in the country had affected many sectors of the nation’s economy leading to closure of many businesses and institutions. On the reduction in pump price of petrol by the Federal Government, the RTEAN spokesman, who commended the government on this, directed the union members nationwide to reflect new pump price of fuel in fares. He also urged marketers of petrol across the country to effect new pump price in the interest of the masses. Recall that the Federal Government had approved the reduction in the pump price of petrol from N145 per litre to N125 per litre with immediate effect last week. The order from the government to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation for the reduction came against the backdrop of the crash in crude oil prices globally. Amusan said, “The executive national president (of RTEAN) uses this opportunity to thank the Federal Government for the reduction in the pump price of petrol. We urge members of the association to allow the reduction to reflect in the transport fares across the country.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 