Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt The Rivers State Police Command, on Wednesday, arrested the leader of a suspected illegal vigilante group operating in Port Harcourt and other parts of the state. The suspect and leader of the group, identified as Alalibo Gogo-Abite, was arrested by the police following a tip-off. The spokesman for the command, Nnamdi Omoni, told our correspondent that the police, in the course of investigation, recovered vital exhibits from the office of the suspect. Omoni stated that the vigilante group was operating illegally, adding that the command was not aware of its existence and operation in the state. He added that the state Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Dandaura, had ordered an investigation into the matter. Omoni said, “The arrest of the suspect followed a tip-off actually because his vehicle was suspected and there was a follow-up on it. Investigation took us to the suspect’s office, where we discovered incriminating items. “Some of the items are multiple identity cards, application forms, letterhead papers resembling those of the police and an identity card of himself with the title: Inspector General. That triggered our suspicion and the suspect said he had over 700 members. “So, he is being investigated. In recent times, we have had cases of people wearing uniform like that of the police and perpetrating criminality; so, if it is established that he is involved in any criminal activities in the state, he will be dealt with accordingly.” In responding to claims by the suspect that his group had been helping the police to fight crime in the state, Omoni added that the suspect was operating illegally and was also perpetrating criminality by printing and using letterhead papers as well as identity cards similar to those of the police. Omoni said, “We are not aware of that. The CP does not know him and his group. Assuming without considering that he has been doing that, everybody has a responsibility to assist the police; it is a constitutional right; even private persons can make arrest and hand over suspects to the police. “The most important thing is that you don’t use a certain illegal platform to perpetrate criminality. The act of printing letterhead papers of the police and identity cards similar to those of the police is an act of criminality.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 