Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Sunday rejected the judgment of the Kogi State High Court, presided over by Justice John Olorunfemi, which voided its primary for the state’s 2019 governorship election. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, at a media briefing in Abuja on Sunday, alleged that the judgment was “a classical example of judicial rascality and scandalous travesty of justice.” He said the judgment would not stand, adding that the party would stop at nothing in exploring all legal avenues to set it aside at the appellate court. The PDP spokesman said the party would report Olorunfemi to the National Judicial Council for alleged gross misconduct. Ologbondinyan said, “It is completely unimaginable that a court of law will import and pronounce reliefs on matters that were not before it or even pleaded by any of the parties; to wit, a declaration on the validity of the PDP Kogi State governorship election primary. “The conduct of the judge only confirmed widespread stand that the court had been externally-induced, ethically- challenged and politically- compromised to undermine the case of the PDP at the Kogi governorship election tribunal.” He further alleged that the PDP was aware of how the All Progressives Congress and the agents of Governor Yahaya Bello allegedly mounted pressure on the court to compromise itself. Ologbondiyan said the pre-election suit filed in the Kogi High Court by only one of the 13 aspirants in the primary, Alhaji Abubakar Ibrahim, only sought the court to declare him the winner of the PDP primary election. According to him, all the parties agreed that the primary was valid and concluded. He said the only contention between Wada and Ibrahim was to determine who the actual winner was and nothing more. The spokesman said, in determining the matter, the judge found that Ibrahim did not establish his case that he won the primary. He said instead of stopping at that, which, according to the PDP, is within the ambit of the reliefs sought and deposed to in the court, the judge allegedly went ahead to deliver the script of the APC by invalidating the PDP primaries as such the party had no candidate for the governorship election of November 16. The PDP spokesman further said, “Our party believes that the ignoble conduct of the trial court does not represent the overall attitude of our judiciary. He acted on his own and must be seen in that light. “The PDP intends to send a petition to the NJC against the trial judge as his conduct amounted to gross misconduct, which our judiciary must not condone.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 