Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The police in Katsina State, on Wednesday, announced the arrest of three members of a gang that allegedly robbed and killed a couple in the Mashi Local Government Area of the state. The suspects are Abubakar Sada, 23; Kabiru Sani, 30; and Alhasan Ahmed, 29. Sada is from the Taka-Lafiya Quarter in Mashi, while Sani and Ahmed are from Katsina town. The spokesman for the Katsina State Police Command, SP Gambo Isah, who confirmed the development, said the three suspects, along with one Mansur Custom, who is currently at large, stormed the couple’s home in the Marina Quarter, Mashi, and allegedly killed them. He gave the names of the couple as Abubakar Aliyu, 35, and Aishatu Surajo, 20. The police spokesman said after the suspects had allegedly killed the couple, they stole N250,000, one laptop computer, one Pup-Two telephone and recharge cards of different networks from their home. Isah said items recovered from the suspects included a sword and a pestle. The police spokesman also stated that a joint team of the police, the military and repentant bandits, on Tuesday, rescued 12 passengers kidnapped by suspected bandits on Sunday. He said the passengers were travelling in a commercial bus before they were attacked and abducted by the bandits along the Yantumaki-Burunkuza Road. Isah stated, “On March 22, 2020, around 9pm, a group of bandits armed with AK-47 rifles blocked the road between Yantumaki and Burunkuza and attacked a commercial bus belonging to the Niger State Government with number plate, Niger-14 B-50 NG, driven by one Shuaibu Muhammed, 45, and kidnapped the passengers. “Consequently, on March 24, 2020, around 11.50pm, joint operations of the police, the military and repentant bandits, in collaboration with the state government, succeeded in rescuing all the 12 passengers kidnapped by the bandits.” Meanwhile, the police spokesman has announced the arrest of a 27-year-old suspected bandit, Muhammed Gidado. Gidado, who was said to be on the police wanted list, was arrested on Sunday by the Operation Puff Adder team attached to the Safana Police Division, while on a patrol. Isah noted that Gidado was arrested while riding an unregistered motorcycle. He stated that when the motorcycle was searched, the team recovered 96 rounds of 7.62 mm live ammunition and N780,000, adding that investigation was in progress on the matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 