Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State Government has said it has deployed security officials to man the entrances to the areas where a large number of Chinese live in the state. The  Special Adviser to Governor Dapo Abiodun on Communications, Remmy Hazzan, said this on Wednesday. Hassan said the state government adopted the strategy to ensure that the self-isolation of these nationals were effective. He added that the action was to stop the possibility of any of them manifesting coronavirus symptoms without being noticed by the relevant authorities. He said, “What we have done is to effect self-isolation (of returning Chinese nationals) in the places where they live. We have them in quarries; some in farms and the estate in Ogun-Quandong Free Trade Zone, Igbesa, is 100 per cent Chinese. “These nationals are isolated in these places. As a matter of fact, we have security officials manning the entrances to all these places to forestall any breach. “We also have people running errands for them (Chinese) to forestall the likelihood of anyone trying to go into neighbouring towns.” Speaking on the effect of coronavirus, the media aide said the state had also put on hold its forthcoming Drum Festival. READ ALSO: US testing Iwu’s drug, says minister He said the festival was put on hold because of the international dimension of the annual festival. He said, “You know this festival will be attended by other countries and we don’t want to take chances. So, we need to postpone the festival, at least, for now.” He, however, said the state was having some difficulties getting the contact listing of those who boarded the same flight with the index case (Italian man). Hazzan said, “They said the (Federal) Ministry of Health is liaising with the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria to get the list. Unfortunately, this has not been done. Once we get the contact listing, we will go after those residing in this state, but besides that, we have almost all the suspects in our net.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 