Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The Deputy National Chairman (South), All Progressives Congress, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, has inaugurated a peace committee to reconcile aggrieved members of the party in Oyo State. Ajimobi had earlier indicated his determination to reconcile aggrieved members of the party in the state in his maiden statement as the deputy national chairman of the party. The reconciliation committee, headed by the former Governor of Oyo State, Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala, comprises 16 members with Prince Gbade Lana as secretary. Ajimobi, who is also a member of the National Working Committee of the APC, said the team would ensure genuine reconciliation of party members in Oyo State. He said all party members contributed to the success of the party in 2011 and 2015 elections. He urged them to accept that they were all responsible for the setback witnessed in the 2019 elections. “I acknowledged that we all contributed to the success of the party in the past, particularly in 2011 and 2015 elections. Conversely, if we have a setback in 2019, I believe it is honourable to accept that we all contributed directly or indirectly accordingly,’’ he said. He apologised for the mistakes he made, saying, “As humans, we are not infallible. I accept my mistakes. I tender my unreserved apology. In the same spirit, others who might have similarly made mistakes, I accept their apologies. “Let us seize this moment for the overall benefit of our party and people. Let selfless and meaningful service to humanity be our watchword.” Other members of the reconciliation committee are Prince Gbade Lana (secretary), Alhaji Kamar Ajisafe, Pa Akin Ojebode, Alhaji Laide Abass, Prof. Dibu Ojerinde, and Senator Teslim Folarin. Others are Segun Odebunmi, Niran Alarape, Mojeed Olaoya, Isiaka Areokuta, Mabel Williams, Chief S.M. Akindele, Adefisoye Adekanye and Rasaq Arikewuyo. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  