Anna Okon Stakeholders in the maritime industry have been counting their losses since the outbreak and spread of the coronavirus. Our correspondent gathered that the Nigerian shipping sector with 85 per cent of its trade components from China has been severely affected by the development. The President, Shipowners Association of Nigeria, Mkgeorge Onyung, said since no one could travel to China, it had been difficult to bring in raw materials. He said, “People are no longer sailing into China and this has affected the local industry. “It is affecting every facet of the economy. Our people depend on raw materials from China. Even the raw materials for the construction of Nigerian rail lines are being delayed because of this. Ships cannot call at Beijing and Shanghai, and it is affecting shipowners.” The Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, also confirmed this when he said the Lagos-Ibadan rail project was being delayed because of the outbreak of the coronavirus. Global reports say maritime transport has been counting the cost of the outbreak. The Danish firm, Maersk, which handles one in five containers shipped by sea, has forecast a weak start in 2020. The liner was quoted as saying, “The weekly container vessel calls at key Chinese ports were significantly down during the last weeks of January and the first weeks of February, compared with last year. “Freight rates are expected to decrease due to dropping demand for containerised goods transport.” Factories in China have reportedly remained closed for longer than usual after the lunar New Year holiday in January, and some large industrial centres are under quarantine conditions. Onyung said in Nigeria, manufacturing firms getting their raw materials from China had also been struggling due to the closure of factories in China. A former President of Nigerian Shipowners Association, Aminu Umar, lamented the impact the development on local shipping industry. He said, “The impact of the virus on shipping is huge. Vessels cannot go to China to load cargoes or deliver cargoes because of fear. “If the vessel calls at any port of an affected place, the vessel will be quarantined on arrival at any port of discharge or transit port, that is, Singapore, for a minimum of 14 days before officials can go onboard.” He said the issue was not for vessels calling at Nigerian ports, adding that if the spread increased in Nigeria, it meant vessels would either avoid Nigeria or get quarantined when they called at any Nigerian port. He added that the losses incurred by shipowners and cargo owners were impacting onboard owners and charterers negatively because of the quarantine that caused delays and loss of hire. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 