Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Osun State Government on Monday abolished same uniform policy and other nine policies introduced to the education sector by the immediate past administration of ex-Governor Rauf Aregbesola. Although the government retained the ‘Opon Imo’ initiative introduced by the same administration, it, however, cancelled the introduction of 4-5-3-4, which saw the creation of middle schools and reverted to the national education policy of 6-3-3-4. The state cabinet directed that all the reversed policies should take effect from the next academic session. The decision of the cabinet was announced by Funke Egbemode, the state Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation after the State Executive Council meeting. Egbemode, who was flanked by the Commissioner for Education, Folorunso Oladoyin and Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Jamiu Olawumi, explained that the cabinet considered 10 recommendations from those submitted to it by a panel led by Prof. Olu Aina, set up to review education policies of the past administration. She said the cabinet reversed nine of the policies outright, adding that the ‘Opon Imo’ education tablets would be enhanced and reintroduced to schools. Other policies that the cabinet unanimously agreed to reverse included, return to previous names of the schools before renaming by government and revert to single sex schools those schools that had been turned to mixed schools among others. Egbemode said, “The council unanimously agreed with the expert report that the State of Osun should reverse to the 6-3-3-4 structure as opposed to the 4-5-3-4 education policy. READ ALSO: Oba of Benin suspends chief for misconduct “The council also agreed that the state will henceforth allow every school to return to its old-established and recognised public uniform. “Another issue was the review of the current arrangement for managing new model high schools. The council agreed that the operations of the Omoluabi Education Services Limited would be wound up since it has not been fulfilling the mandate for which it is established. “The council agreed that early childhood education be restored in the state and the state will employ well trained professionals to handle the early childhood education that was been suspended.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 