Ebenezer Bajela The Confederation of African Football has postponed the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations doubleheader between Nigeria and Sierra Leone in Asaba and Freetown due to the widespread of coronavirus. According to a statement released on the football ruling body’s website, the decision was due to the growing concerns of the virus and the warnings from the World Health Organisation. “Following the growing concerns of the COVID-19 virus and the declaration by the World Health Organisation describing it as a pandemic, CAF has decided to postpone the following competitions until further notice,” reads the statement. “Total AFCON 2021 Qualifiers: Match Day three and four of the qualifiers scheduled for March 25 to 31, 2020, Women’s U-20 World Cup Qualifiers and the Women’s AFCON 2020 Qualifiers.” Prior to the announcement by CAF, President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick, said that plans were in place to ensure the safety of the Super Eagles’ players for the doubleheader Africa Cup of Nations Cup clash with Sierra Leone. Amaju, while addressing journalists revealed that the federation was working with the ministry of health to protect the players invited for the game. Though, there had been no report of the coronavirus yet in Sierra Leone, Amaju assured that there would be minimal body contact with the players as they had promised their various clubs to protect them from what is now referred to as a pandemic. “We are working with the ministry, both the ministry of youth and sport and the ministry of health regarding the coronavirus, in ensuring that we are very well prepared. “We are also in touch with the disease control unit of the federal ministry of health. What we have decided to do, with the permission of the minister, is to try to restrict the movement towards the Super Eagles players as much as possible. “We have made arrangement for a charter that will take them directly from here on the 30th of this month and straight to Freetown. “We are going with a smaller jet because we don’t want anybody aside from the players and probably three NFF officials to go with them. We want to reduce bodily contact as much as possible. “We had a deal with their clubs and we also need to protect them as much as possible because they are very excited about this game.” According to CAF, a new schedule for the matches will be announced soon. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  