John Charles Suspected Fulani herdsmen have killed at least seven persons and injured several others in coordinated attacks on communities in Guma Local Government Area of Benue State. It was learnt that the attacks took place from Friday night to the early hours of Saturday. Eyewitnesses said the herdsmen invaded Chongu community in Mbawa, where mourners had gathered for a wake at about 11 pm, killing some and injuring others. It was further learnt that the herdsmen moved into Tse Ayev and Tyohembe in Mbanyiar community in the same area, where they also attacked mourners and killed some persons. An eyewitness and resident of Mbawa, Zaki Usuah, said the herdsmen invaded the communities about 11 pm and started shooting aimlessly till the early hours of Saturday. He said, “We were at the wake for one of our late elders who was to be buried on Saturday at Chongu. We were at the place when we started hearing gunshots suddenly. “At Tyohembe, they killed one Chikwa and Taza Abuur. They went to Tse Ayev and killed another person, Tarnum Yanum, while the bodies of four other persons were shattered beyond recognition. If they ran into women, they would collect their handsets and money. As I speak with you, the communities have been deserted and so many people have fled the areas. “I want to use this opportunity to appeal to the state government to draft security agents to the area.” When contacted, the Force Commander, Operation Whirl Stroke, Major General Adeyemi Yekini, said he was not aware of any attack. “I am not aware of this, please,” he said. But the state Police Command, through its spokesperson, Catherine Anene, said two people were killed in the attack on Guma communities. “I can confirm to you that we received the report of herdsmen attack on Guma communities, leading to the death of two people,” she said.’’ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  