Sunday Aborisade,  Abuja Some legislators  are not happy with  the Presidency for  delay in sending the  Petroleum Industry Bill  to  the National Assembly  for approval. The President of the Senate,  Ahmad Lawan,  early in the year said they were desirous of passing  the proposed legislation before the end of the year. Lawan had said   the Senate  would ensure that  the transmission of the approved version of the of the PIB to the President for his assent before the end of 2020. He  said   the Senate expected the  cooperation of the executive in the Senate’s  bid to push the PIB through. Lawan  said, “Our petroleum industry is almost stagnant and for long needing profound reform. “Our oil and gas-related committees are therefore expected to work hard to take the lead in our determination to reform this vital sector. “It is the desire, indeed the design of this Senate that, the Petroleum Industry Bill is passed before the end of 2020.” However, investigations by our correspondent indicated that the bill might not be passed this year. Some  members of the Senate committee on Petroleum Resources (Upstream,  downstream and gas) wondered why the draft document  had  yet   to be sent to the red chamber. A member of the committee, who spoke to  our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said the executive should have presented the PIB  the moment the National Assembly passed the bill amendeding the Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract Act 2014. He said,  “We were determined to start work on the PIB in January  considering the level we achieved in the 8th Senate, but the attitude of the executive towards it shows that we may not be able to pass it before the end of the year. “The Senate President  put the three committees in charge of the oil and gas sector on their  toes but unfortunately  there is no document to work on.” Lawan on Wednesday lamented the delay in the submission of the PIB by the Presidency. He said  while reacting to the coronavirus  outbreak, which has  caused  crude price crash. Lawan said, “The PIB we had expected by now would have been in the National Assembly but it is not. “We had thought we would be able to pass it within this year so that we would be  able to make our petroleum industry to have the legal framework that investors would find attractive to be here. “But we are still expecting that the executive would work faster and harder to present the PIB to the National Assembly in the shortest possible time. The PIB, is an omnibus law meant to regulate the entire sphere of the oil and gas industry. It is aimed  at repealing  the  existing legislation in the sector. It has yet  to see the light of day despite its introduction to the National Assembly over 16 years ago. The National Assembly decided to break the PIB into a number of different pieces of legislation guiding specific aspects of the industry. They are the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill, Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill and the Host Community Bill. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   