Deji Lambo Pandemonium broke out in the V-Niger, Abule-Ado area of Satellite Town, Lagos State, on Wednesday when suspected hoodlums and members of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers clashed. It was learnt that the Oba of Oguntedo village, Lateef Olarinde, allegedly mobilised the hoodlums to sack the NUPENG members from their base in the area in order to start collecting levies. PUNCH Metro gathered that annoyed by the development, the union members, who viewed the development as an attempt to extort them, resisted the hoodlums and a free-for-all followed. During the clash, which occurred around 4am, it was learnt that the hoodlums took advantage of the situation to rob residents of their valuables and also broke into shops and looted them. Many residents were said to have abandoned their homes and fled the area. An eyewitness, Seyi Abejoye, alleged, “Oba Olarinde mobilised a lot of hoodlums around 4am and they invaded the V-Niger area in Abule-Ado to take over the base of the NUPENG members. He plans to sack them from there so that he can start collecting levies from their members. But the union members resisted him and this led to a clash. “Five people were injured, but when the police came, they gave the hoodlums a hot chase and Olarinde escaped.” To prevent a reprisal and restore the confidence of the residents, PUNCH Metro learnt that policemen had been patrolling the area. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bala Elkana, said the situation had been brought under control, adding that 40 suspects had been arrested in connection with the crime. Elkana stated, “We got a distress call from the Divisional Police Officer, Satellite Division, CSP Chike Oti, and the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, sent reinforcement from the command headquarters to restore normalcy in the area. “The situation was brought under control and we have 40 suspects in custody. We gathered that Oba Lateef Olarinde mobilised the hoodlums to take over the NUPENG office, but they were met with stiff resistance. Olarinde is not among those arrested as he had fled before our men got to the scene.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  