Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt To prevent the spread of the dreaded coronavirus into Rivers State, a firm, Tolaram Africa Enterprises Limited, has donated several cartons of Hypo bleach to the authorities of the Port Harcourt International Airport. Handing over the items to the airport on Thursday, the Area Marketing Manager, Hypo HomeCare Products Limited, Moses Adams, said the move was one of its ways of assisting the government to prevent the virus from gaining entry into the state. Adams said, “Due to the outbreak of the coronavirus in the country, our company made this move to help curtail it from spreading. Before now, we have been going from one house to the other to sensitise our consumers at home to the importance of hygiene in their homes and business places. “The airport is a gateway, where many people come in from different parts of the world. So, we decided to come to the airport and donate to them cartons of our products to assist the authorities to disinfect their door handles and other facilities and the airport environment as a preventive measure. “We intend to visit the seaports in the state and also donate more of our products, but we have to take it one after the other. We will also visit the motor parks, churches and mosques and other worship centres to educate them about coronavirus and preventive measures. We are doing all of these to block the outbreak of the virus in the state.” Receiving the donated items on behalf of the airport authority, the Assistant General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Port Harcourt International Airport Authority, Kunle Akinbode, appreciated the firm, noting that the move would help the airport authorities ensure that coronavirus did not spread through its facilities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   