John Ameh, Abuja Ex-Police Commander in charge of MOPOL 24, State House, Abuja, Abdullahi Ibrahim, has died in a car crash alongside his wife.  However, their children who were travelling with them survived. The  Assistant Commissioner of Police died on Friday while travelling to his place of posting in Onitsha, Anambra State. The late Ibrahim took charge of the State House command between 2016 and 2019 “where he was entrusted with the delicate responsibility of ensuring the safety of the President and his motorcade.” The Presidency in a statement in Abuja on Friday said  Buhari was saddened by Ibrahim’s passing. “ACP Ibrahim was a highly dedicated officer, responsible and extremely reliable. He undertook his job most professionally,” Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr Garba Shehu, quoted the President as saying. “He knew what was expected of him and carried it out to the letter.” The Presidency added, “The President commiserates with the government and people of Bauchi State, the Inspector-General of Police and the Nigeria Police Force on the loss of such a highly-dependable officer at a time that the nation looks up to such a  dedicated officer. “He prays that God Almighty will comfort his family, friends and colleagues who mourn, grant the children quick recovery and repose the souls of the departed.” Meanwhile, Buhari, on Friday paid tribute to the Principal of  Bethlehem High School, Abule-Ado, Lagos, Rev. Sister Henrietta Alokha. READ ALSO: Nine killed, four injured in Enugu, Anambra auto crashes Alokha lost her life in the recent Lagos explosion while trying to rescue some students of the school trapped in the inferno. The President said he joined staff members and students in mourning the “huge loss to the school, and the country”, as her remains were laid to rest. The State House stated, “The President believes Sister Alokha’s choice to lay down her life for the students she loved deserves commendation, while taking into consideration her contributions to the educational development of the country through piety, diligence and charity. “President Buhari salutes her courage and heroism, saying that posterity will remember her sacrificial spirit, rescuing children kept under her care, and putting her own life on the line. “The President prays that the almighty God will accept her soul, comfort her family, and all those she lived and died for. “President Buhari, again, condoles with all those who lost their loved ones and property in the pipeline explosion, praying that God will strengthen them in the trying period.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com