The high cost of managing children born with hydrocephalus, coupled with the lack of awareness, stigmatisation and inadequate specialised facilities increase the burden of families of children living with the condition. LARA ADEJORO reports Mr. Afolabi Fajemilo only heard of hydrocephalus when his then two-month-old son, Festus, was diagnosed with the condition. Restless and eager to seek a cure for his son’s condition, Fajemilo, for two years, went looking for alternative help. “They claimed they could reduce the size of my baby’s head, but we discovered it was all a lie.” He later took the baby to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, where the life-saving surgery was performed on the little baby. Today, Festus, now 15, is alive, though he still bears the most visible symptom of congenital hydrocephalus — an oversized head. According to a Consultant Neurosurgeon at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, Dr. Bamidele Ayodele, hydrocephalus is a condition in which there is an abnormal build-up of cerebrospinal fluid within the brain. “Hydrocephalus results from an imbalance in the production, circulation and absorption of cerebrospinal fluid. “The brain produces about one pint of cerebrospinal fluid each day, and old CSF is absorbed into blood vessels. If the process of producing and removing CSF is disturbed, CSF can accumulate, causing hydrocephalus. “A build-up of cerebrospinal fluid stretches and damages the brain, leading to physical and intellectual impairment. It also makes the head of the child get bigger,” Ayodele explains. Fajemilo’s experience with hydrocephalus, and his shocking discovery of the lack of affordable care, inadequate medical facilities, harmful taboos, and a pervasively negative attitude towards the condition made him to inaugurate the Festus Fajemilo Foundation in 2006, to raise awareness about the causes, prevention, and treatment for spina bifida hydrocephalus; and to provide guidance, psychosocial and emotional support for parents of children with the condition. Only two public hospitals treat hydrocephalus in Lagos Narrating his experience, Fajemilo states, “During our time [in 2005], we discovered that many hospitals didn’t have the equipment for treatment — only a few hospitals can treat the condition; as such, parents pay huge amount of money for the treatment. “Worse still, up until now, there are no dedicated centres for the treatment of this condition,” he laments. According to Dr. Ayodele, only two public hospitals treat hydrocephalus in Lagos — state-owned LASUTH, and the Federal Government-owned Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba. At LASUTH, PUNCH HealthWise discovered, children suffering from hydrocephalus have no ward of their own, as they share the BT Cardio-Neuro wardwith adults and aged persons who are being treated for life-threatening diseases. “There are other private hospitals that can treat the condition, but it is more expensive,” Dr. Ayodele says; adding, “Such private hospitals are not many, either.” As if to underscore the stigma attached to having a baby living with hydrocephalus, a mother, who we’ll call Mrs. Azeez, refuses to have her name in print. Her infant son was referred from a private clinic in Sango-Ota, Ogun State, to LASUTH. “I was shocked when I was told that my baby had hydrocephalus. I attended ante-natal religiously. I took the prescribed medications religiously. I used folic acid and went for a scan every week to know how the baby was doing. “I eventually had him through Caesarean Section at the 35th week and I was immediately referred to LASUTH,” the distraught mother says. She was informed her baby needed a surgery to correct the condition. Marital strain and stigmatisation Azeez stayed for four months in LASUTH with her baby, incurring the wrath of her husband who felt she had neglected him and other members of the family as a result. “At a point, my husband said I should leave our baby here,” she says. Baby Azeez was operated on after four months, and his mother currently awaits his discharge from the hospital. As for Fajemilo, his friends simply left him. “I lost some friends who didn’t want to associate with me because of the condition of my son,” he recalls. I wish I attended antenatal clinics! Unlike Mrs. Azeez who attended antenatal religiously while she was pregnant, Mrs. Helen (last name withheld), desperately wishes she had done the same while she was pregnant with her now two-month-old baby. She fights back tears as she narrates her story, noting, “I always cover my baby’s head whenever I’m going out or whenever we have a visitor.” “I wish I had gone for ante-natal when I took in. I was preoccupied with work and it’s not that there is no hospital where I stay in Ayobo [a Lagos suburb in Alimosho local government area] but I didn’t have the time to attend clinicsuntil I was sixmonths pregnant,” Helen wails. She first noticed a swelling on her new borndaughter’s back and when she took her to the hospital at Ayobo, the was referred to LASUTH for surgery.She was successfully operated on at two months old, but that was not the end of the little girl’s medical issues. “After the surgery, we noticed that her head had become swollen, though a doctor had told us that it was because of the swelling on her back. “We were advised to go for a scan, after which she was diagnosed with hydrocephalus.” To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 