Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State has urged the leadership of the House of Representatives to consider the state’s representatives for committee chairmanship positions. He made the call when the state’s Peoples Democratic Party’s House of Representatives’ caucus visited him at the Government House, Yenagoa. Among those present were the member representing Sagbama-Ekeremor Federal Constituency, Fred Agbedi; his Yenagoa/Kolokuma/Opokuma counterpart, Prof. Steve Azaiki; and Fred Obuah representing Ogbia Federal Constituency. The governor, who is a former member of the House of Representatives, recalled that the practice was that chairmanship positions were distributed to all states for the sake of equity and fairness. Diri said, “Let me use the opportunity to call on my colleagues in the House of Reps and the Speaker that it is very disheartening to hear that our state representatives, as worthy and credible as they are, none is serving as chairman of any committee in the House. “I, therefore, call on my friend, brother and senior ranking colleague, the Speaker, to see that one of our members is made chairman of a committee. They have all the qualities. We have ranking members. In terms of academics, we have a professor. In terms of experience, they all have what it takes to chair a committee.” The governor called for collaboration with the lawmakers to draw the much-needed federal presence, investors and development to the state through targeted bills and motions. The member representing Sagbama-Ekeremor Federal Constituency, Fred Agbedi, described the governor as one of them having been in the 8th and 9th Assembly. Agbedi pledged their commitment and readiness to work with the governor through the presentation of bills and motions to ensure the success of his administration. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  