Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives dedicated Thursday’s plenary, which lasted about five hours, to the issue of out-of-school children. Members took turns to X-ray the factors responsible for the huge number of out-of-school  children in the country  education, warning that Nigeria’s low global ratings were not acceptable. The lawmakers resolved to amend the National Youth Service Corps Act to encourage deployment of young Nigerians on one-year national service to teach in schools. The House also resolved that it would dedicate a week for members to organise town hall meetings with their constituents for sensitisation on children education. Also, the House Committee on Basic Education was mandated to carry out investigation into the matter of Nigeria’s out-of-school children to ascertain, amongst other things, the current figure of out-of-school children in the country, including specific numbers in each state of the federation. Furthermore, the House resolved to “commence the process of amending the National Youth Service Corps Act to establish a programme to identify, recruit and train willing, capable and promising young Nigerians to serve as teachers in under- served areas.” Earlier, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, noted that the House chose to consider the matter of the millions of out-of-school children and who, as a result, are denied their fundamental right to receive the training and skills acquisition opportunities. Gbajabiamila said, “We are here to consider the failures of policy development and implementation, the vagaries of culture and religion that have contributed to the plight of these young people. We are here to advance solutions to this problem. The Speaker decried that over the last 20 years, the Federal Government had committed to a programme of education reform that had resulted in the allocation of significant sums of money to fund basic education access in our country. Gbajabiamila stated that Nigeria would not eradicate poverty from or meet the challenges of insecurity, defeat ignorance and strife or attract foreign investment in significant numbers to make a substantial economic difference, “until all the people have access to modern education that empowers them to participate fully in the 21st-Century knowledge economy.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  