Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State House of Assembly has passed an emergency bill to assist the state in combating the spread of coronavirus. The bill, named the Emergency Coronavirus Pandemic Bill, which was sponsored by the Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, would enable the state government to spend N20bn to effectively contain the virus. The bill, which was presented on the floor of the chamber by the Deputy Majority Leader, Noheem Adams, would also enable the state government to enforce compliance by the residents of the state. The PUNCH learnt that due to the urgency of the bill, it scaled its third reading after it was passed to the committee on health for further deliberation. It was gathered that the bill would enable the governor to make recourse to the House before any regulations and the bill also stipulated a fine of N100,000, one-month imprisonment in the correctional centre or three months community service for defaulters. According to the bill, where the offence is not spelt out, it attracts N200,000 and also allows the leadership of the various arms of government to structure their restriction format. The bill also enables the governor to declare a state of emergency of up to three months if the situation so requires, while Section 8 of the bill makes a provision for the Coronavirus Trust Fund. Speaking on the passing of the bill, Obasa noted that the contingency plan in the budget could not sort out the current issue, hence the need for the bill. He said, “Government needs to be seen doing something, making effective pronouncements. With the bill, the governor can make recourse to the House if need be and if the budget procedure takes much time than isn’t suffice, the kick-off fund will help.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   