…faults Obaseki, Amaechi, others over endorsements John Alechenu, Abuja The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Yekini Nabena, has faulted the endorsement of Chief Victor Giadom as replacement for the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole. He said Giadom was not fit for such a position because he officially resigned his position in the APC National Working Committee to contest as running mate to the party’s 2019 governorship candidate in Rivers State, Tonye Cole. Nabena said this while speaking to newsmen in Abuja, on Saturday. He said,  “I call on members of our party and the public to disregard the so-called zonal caucus meeting which held on Thursday at the Edo State Governor’s Lodge in Abuja. “The meeting was neither convened nor attended by the APC National Vice Chairman (South South), Hilliard Eta and Leader of the party in the South-South, Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege. “Hence, all decisions reached at the purported meeting is a nullity and definitely does not reflect the views and stand of the Party’s South South caucus. “Specifically, on the purported meeting’s request that the APC National Executive Committee  confirm Victor Giadom as acting National Chairman, we cannot be taken for a ride because of the political and 2023 presidential aspirations of his (Giadom’s) sponsor and godfather who is attempting to control the Party’s structure. “It should be known that Victor Giadom tendered his resignation letter to the National Working Committee (NWC) to contest the 2019 election as the Party’s Deputy Governorship candidate in Rivers State. “It is strange and an aberration that he still attends meetings of the NWC, occupies the office of Deputy National Secretary and convenes a NEC meeting. “ In our politicking, we must not lose sight of due process and the dictates of the Party’s constitution.” READ ALSO: We got victims’ details searching dustbins in federal ministries – Arrested fraudsters who duped businessman N14m Recall that some South South APC leaders including the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki;  Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and some of his colleagues in Buhari’s cabinet, held a consultative meeting in Abuja on Friday where they endorsed Giadom to act as National Chairman in place of Oshimohole who was suspended. Giadom is yet to respond to the allegations as of the time of filing this report. He neither picked his calls nor has he returned any. A response to a text message sent to him is still being awaited.