Gibson Achonu, Owerri The Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma on Wednesday advised his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike, to think before he talks on political matters, particularly as they concern the Peoples Democratic Party, he pretends to love more than others. Uzodinma said he had no regrets over his comments berating the PDP and people like Wike who he accused of being behind the plot to remove the National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress, Adams Oshiomhole. Wike had on Tuesday berated Uzodinma on a national television over the comment. This was contained in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary/Media Adviser to Uzodinma, Mr Oguwike Nwachukwu, on Wednesday. The statement read in part, “There is no better way to pin Governor Wike down to the recent crisis rocking the APC and its national chairman than the careless way he spoke against Governor Uzodinma who obviously was echoing what many already know about Wike and his type of politics. “Is it not unfortunate that Governor Wike pretends to have a court injunction on how to speak carelessly, the reason many erstwhile members of the PDP, including founding members, had abandoned the party which is about to collapse on Wike’s head. “Rather than engage in some kind of introspection on what went wrong with his party, Governor Wike thinks that trivialising serious issues of national and international importance will bring accolades his way. “If Governor Wike did not have a hand in the Oshiomhole saga, why insult innocent Governor Uzodinma whose only crime was that he brought Wike’s mischief tendencies to the fore for everyone to see? “Governor Wike pretends to love the judiciary more than anyone else, but the truth is that every opportunity he gets to stand the judiciary on the head he does so with relish.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com