Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The leadership of the Indigenous People of Biafra on Wednesday alleged that the killings in the South-East geopolitical zone were aided by governors of the zone, who had been paying service to security of lives and property. The group noted that leaders in the zone did a lot of talking than acting on their talks, adding that those who the poor masses looked up to for protection had abandoned them. IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, said this in a statement he personally signed. He was reacting to the killings in Ndiagu Orie village, Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo community in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State on Tuesday, which the group claimed led to the murder of over 20 persons and destruction of  property worth billions of naira. IPOB claimed that the gunmen who attacked the community from Agila in Ardo community, Benue State, allegedly acted in connivance with the Nigerian Army. IPOB observed that it was worrisome that the media were not doing enough to beam their searchlight on these killings, adding, “but they will report fast when IPOB acts.” The statement read in part, “On March 3, 2020, around 14:30 hours (2.30pm) at Ndegu Orie, Umuoguduakpu-Ngbo community in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, armed Fulani terrorists camped at neighbouring Agila community in the Ardo LGA, Benue State, numbering about 35, supported by the Nigerian Army who were already present in Umuoguduakpu village harassing people. These Fulani terrorists in collaboration with the Nigerian Army invaded the community and killed 20 persons. “Those killed include Fidelia Ali 0meh, 70; Helen Ali, 55; Ogayi  Ali, 45; James  Eze, 58; Eke Ajah, 85; Idenyi  Agbo, 45; Elizabeth Obele, 81; Ogah Oge, 35; and Ogba Eze, 65.” “Those that look up to governors across the South-East for protection can now see for themselves that Fulani caliphate are the ones in charge of the zone. The governors are pursuing their selfish agenda to the detriment of the poor masses they govern. We blame them for the killings going on in Igboland. This is wickedness.” Meanwhile, the Chairman of Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Mr Clement Odah, on Tuesday said nine persons were killed in the attack, adding that the people of Agila were flouting the peace pact reached between the two communities. He said, “We use this opportunity to call on the Federal Government and specifically, call on the National Boundary Commission to hasten up and do the needful. They cause these killings to go on every now and then.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  