Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Some bandits have abducted four persons, including three Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination candidates who sat for the examination in Kaduna State on Saturday. The police in Kaduna on Monday confirmed the incident. The police said the four were kidnapped at Ungwan Yako village in the Birni Gwari Local Government Area of the state. The fourth person was said to be a minor, a one-and-half-year-old boy. The driver of the vehicle that conveyed the UTME candidates was killed by the bandits, according to the police. The state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalinge, gave the names of the UTME candidates as Yusuf Sani, Ummi Sani and Umairah Mustapha. Our correspondent gathered that the candidates were returning to Birnin Gwari after their examination on Saturday in Kaduna when they were abducted by the gunmen. It was also learnt that the bandits along the same road killed a driver to a former House of Representatives’ member,  Adamu Shekarau, who represented the constituency in the 8th assembly. The driver, it was learnt, had since been buried on Sunday in accordance with Islamic rites. Though the state police command confirmed the abduction of the UTME candidates, it remained silent on the killing of Shekarau’s driver. The police spokesman said when contacted on the incidents, “Yes, there was an attack on Saturday on Birnin-Gwari road.  The driver of the vehicle was shot dead  and four other people were kidnapped. The incident happened around a village called Ungwan Yako. “Three of the kidnapped victims are candidates who came to Kaduna to sit for the UTME examination.  They were on their way back when the incident happened. They are; Yusuf Sani, Ummi Sani and Umairah Mustapha. The fourth person is a little baby, a year-and-half old. “The police around the area engaged the criminals and recovered their motorcycle. We are still trailing the criminals.” Meanwhile, Jalinge said the state Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Muri, had directed the immediate deployment of troops and Armoured Personnel Carrier to the scene of the incident. “The commissioner has directed more deployment in the Kaduna-Birnin – Gwari road and one Armoured Personnel Carrier has been deployed to man that area particularly. “The APC is just about to leave the police headquarters now to the place,” Jalinge said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 