Victor Ojei, a human rights activist based in Delta State, came to the aid of Harry Odiakaose, a Nigerian based in Poland, who was allegedly arrested and almost extorted by a team of IGP X-Squad. He tells MATTHEW OCHEI about alleged corrupt practices and unlawful detention of innocent citizens by IGP X-Squad in Delta State What do you know about the case of Harry Odiakaose, who was allegedly arrested by a team of IGP X-Squad in Delta State? I’m the Director-General of Young Nigeria Rights Organisation. A lady contacted me on the phone and told me about an unlawful arrest of a man by the IGP X-Squad. I feature on a weekly programme on Bridge FM, Asaba, where we discuss human rights. I share my phone number to the public on the programme in case of any human rights abuse. Since 2016, we have been doing our best to ensure that there is law and order in the state. We try to check corruption. What happened to the young man is something that has been abolished in Nigeria since 1989. Police have been harassing young men doing legitimate businesses. Imagine a young man who has lived and worked in Europe for 13 years coming to his country and facing harassment and intimidation. He would be able to afford that kind of car if he worked for 13 years in Poland. On March 12, 2020, I was contacted by the lady and I went there. Before I got there, they (IGP X-Squad) had already beaten up an official of state fire service for pleading with them to release the young man (Harry). The worst part of the story is that the IGP X-Squad doesn’t even have any respect for the Commissioner of Police in the state. They said the police commissioner had no power to give them any directive because they were operating under the IGP’s office. So, how did you get him released? I called the Deputy Commissioner of Police and spoke with them. They were told to release the young man, but they refused. That was why I called the Commissioner of Police, Hafiz Inuwa. The commissioner told me to go there if it was true that they demanded N10m. Their agenda was to extort money from the young man. When I got, I introduced myself and asked the officers to tell me their names because I normally interface with the police community and I know a number of them. They refused to tell me their names because they knew what they were doing was illegal. How can you take a young man to a mango tree at the police station and charge him without making any entry. The Divisional Police Officer of that station has a question to answer; why will he allow the IGP X-Squad to be using the station for extortion and exploitation? I have already written a petition concerning two victims and this one will make it three. Did you know young man? No, I didn’t know him from Adam; I had not met him before. The person who called me must have known that I had intervened in such cases in the state, and also in Anambra State. The person must have listened to my human rights programme on radio. I’m not saying we don’t have good policemen as there are lots of good officers but the bad eggs among them are giving the entire police force a bad image and these bad officers need to be kicked out of the system because they are involved in daylight fraud. Each time they get their victims, they try to incriminate them such that there will be no escape for them. It is very bad and illegal. We have the best laws in Nigeria but our problem is implementation. So, what is the petition about? Yes, the petition is to draw the attention of government, human rights commission and the Commissioner of Police to the corrupt practices and abuse of human rights by the IGP X-Squad. We petitioned the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, over continued illegal detention, corruption and extortion by the squad in Delta State. We also addressed it to the Coordinator, National Human Rights Commission; Governor Ifeanyi Okowa; Police Service Commission, and others to draw their attention to the illegal actions. We received a lot of reports from various parts of the state and in the course of our interventions; we found out that the IGP X-Squad had been extorting money from innocent citizens. In Asaba and other parts of the state, there have been violations and abuse of people’s rights. As we speak now, you cannot absolve the Special Anti-Robbery Squad officers of blame in the general extortion going on. They collect as much as N100,000 from each victim. These actions go against the Administration of Criminal Justice Act. These police officers now indulge in massive extortion that the Act outlawed. Are you saying that the police cannot search citizens considering the rate of insecurity in the country? No, I am not saying that and I will not say that. But they should conduct their search professionally and allow people to go when nothing incriminating is found on them. To start demanding money and beating people is an act of corruption and abuse of human rights. This will not reduce crime, rather it will encourage it because criminals already know that if they are caught by the police, all they need to do is to quickly transfer money to them and go scot-free. This is what is happening now in Asaba and its environs. Their actions violate the rights of people to dignity. It violates freedom of movement, and by looking through people’s mobile phones without permit, you are depriving them of liberty and privacy. I am calling on the relevant authorities and the state government, as a matter of urgency, to save Deltans and investigate this corrupt IGP X-Squad to identify the bad eggs among them that are working so hard to give the Nigeria Police a bad name, before it will be too late. The public no longer trust those who are supposed to protect them because they have been robbing them. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  