Rasheed Bisiriyu Many auto journalists on a recent tour of the old assembly plant of the Anambra Motor Manufacturing Company Limited on Emene Industrial Layout, Enugu, including our correspondent, had looked forward to the visit with excitement. After about three decades of abandonment, it would be interesting to see what had really become of a Mercedes-Benz factory that used to be the pride of the nation? There were a few surprises here and there as the tour progressed; it is amazing to have found many of the ancient buildings and assembly lines still standing tall and firm. The Managing Director of ABC Transport Plc, Frank Nneji, whose other firm, Transport Support Services Limited, is currently assembling Shacman trucks using the ANAMMCO facility, was on hand to answer all manner of questions posed by the visitors about the revived plant especially the line mainly used to produce trucks for Dangote Group. The workers were busy at their work in the different sections of coupling the truck’s components until the final roll-out of each vehicle. In a corner of the hall sat Helen Edeh, fixing bolts and nuts methodically with so much devotion. She was not just alone in the section of the job but also the only lady in their entire assembly plant. The dexterity with which she did the job was also enough reason to make one want to spend a little time with this lady mechanic. There have been a few cases of lady mechanics such as the CEO of Sandex Car Care Garage, Sandra Aguebor, founder of Lady Mechanic Initiative; and the Lady Benz in Lekki-Lagos, Joy Amuche-Obi. These are young women trying to excel in a male-dominated job. But Helen Edeh is an elderly woman, doing job like a young man desired to get something out of it. In a short interview with our correspondent, even as she claimed to be in her late ‘40s laughing, she obviously must be over 60 years. Here is an excerpt of the encounter: How old are you madam? I am over 40 years old (laughing). Where are you from? I’m from Abapanike, in Enugu State. How long have you been here? I’ve been working here at ANAMMCO since 1993. It looks like you’re in a male job. How do you feel? I like it sir. I’m proud of the job. It gives me joy. Are you the only female here? Yes sir. Has anybody ever told you you’re in a male job? They’re always saying it jokingly. But it doesn’t bother me. As long as I like what I’m doing and nobody has complained about my job; that is all that matters to me. What really do you do here? I work in the auto electrical/air conditioning session. Did you study for it or you just came here and started doing the work? I studied mechanical engineering. I went to train for it in school. What’s fascinating about the job? I like technical work. It gives me joy when I do it. When did you pick up the interest? When I was a child, I normally liked to join things together using wire and iron. And when people came around and saw what I had done, they would praise me for this. Are you encouraging any of your children to go into this? Yes, I encourage them to go into anything that will give them joy and satisfaction. One of my children is doing this already, studying engineering in a higher institution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  