John Alechenu, Abuja The Director General of the Progressives Governors’ Forum, Salihu Lukeman, on Sunday dismissed a seven-day ultimatum given him to withdraw a memo he wrote wherein he accused the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, of being responsible for the party’s crisis. The PGF is the umbrella body of governors elected on the platform of the APC. Lukeman told The PUNCH on the telephone interview that the shadowy group ought not to be taken seriously because, “There are more serious issues. We are trying to build a party. What I wrote is an intervention; I am working on a formal presentation to the (Chief Bisi Akande-led APC National Reconciliation) committee.” The ultimatum issued by the Edo Stakeholders expires today (Monday). Recall that a group of Oshiomhole supporters under the aegis of the APC stakeholders in Edo State, had six days ago, given the PGF DG, a seven-day ultimatum to withdraw what it called “an offensive and malicious statement” or be prepared to face a legal action. The threat was contained in a statement jointly signed by Chief Francis Inegbeneki and Alhaji Suleiman Bagudu, in Abuja, last week. They had alleged that the memo issued by the PGF DG accusing Oshiomhole of being the problem of the party was not only an insult but was also offensive. They were reacting to a memo written by the PGF DG to the Chief Bisi Akande-led APC peace panel  on Sunday. The DG had accused  Oshiomhole of being the problem of the party. While dismissing the contents of the memo as “arrant nonsense”, the group explained that the DG ceased to be the DG of the Progressives Governors Forum the day he allegedly decided to market himself to those who were afraid of the ongoing reforms in the APC. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 