Former Flying Eagles defender now Sunshine Stars chief coach Kayode Julius talks about life in retirement, playing at the 1995 AYC, being banned by the LMC and more in this interview with EBENEZER BAJELA Are you enjoying life after retiring as a footballer? Yes! Life after football is different from being an active footballer. They are two different things entirely. Now, we are retired but not tired but for the love of the game, we still have the passion and the zeal. When we were playing, we were committed to working hard and playing but there’s a limitation in life, as there are some things we could do when we were active. Now that we are not, we do some exercises to still keep fit. Obviously, my shape and physique aren’t what they used to be during my active years. Do you sometimes feel like returning to playing football? Yes! In fact we have Ondo State All-Stars, which comprises ex-footballers and I am the president. Every ex-footballer that has become a coach, has to adjust their passion on the field of play when coaching. You feel as though you’re the one on the pitch, expecting them to do it the way you did in your days but you have to adjust it because there’s little you can do about it. There are some moves the players make that make you want to get a piece of the action but the strength is no more there. Observe the passion and anxiety of ex-footballers turned coaches; they don’t want to lose and want things done their way. They always want to win. At times I train with them and show them one or two things but then the strength is gone, regardless of the intelligence that’s still there. Between playing football and coaching, which do you prefer? You need to understand that it is impossible to be a footballer forever. Football is entertainment that gives you fame, likewise coaching, but in football, you can’t play forever because injuries will set in and age will catch up with you. Some injuries will possibly force you into retirement or age would limit you. You then settle for the job of a manager, agent or coach. Coaching is also demanding because you’re a model, a father and must be patient, unlike players, who live different lifestyles, from their dressing to hairstyles and so on. I prefer to be a coach though, because football requires a lot of sacrifice, commitment, determination, passion and zeal. It is one thing to become a star and it’s another thing to maintain it. There’s also the psychological aspect of it; when you lose a match, you need to encourage the team and prepare them for the next game. Coaches can easily handle the pressure, unlike players who have replacements lining up to take over when they drop form. But I must tell you that it is not easy to be a coach, when the team is not doing well, the board gives you maybe like five matches ultimatum to turn things around and you have to deliver. How will you rate the standard of the NPFL compared to when you played? I will tell you the bitter truth, now is the best. The likes of Shehu Dikko are doing a great job. The referees now are doing a great job. I’ll give kudos to the referees association, the league management and the Nigeria Football Federation. Now, home wins aren’t guaranteed, unlike in those days when you would lose by hook or crook when you played away. Secondly, the security is better. The league is competitive now, there is no way you will relax because you are playing at home. You must give your best whether you’re at home or away. Players are on their feet now because they know that they must do their best to win any game.  The market value is high, as well as the intensity and the pace. The game is free and fair. Referees now get sanctions for bad officiating. You were part of the 1995 Flying Eagles side that faltered at home at the then African Youth Championship. What happened? I feel bad whenever I remember the incident because we were one of the best squads Nigeria ever fielded. We were impressive; we defeated the German U-21 team at the Leipzig stadium. We had the likes of Olumide Harris, late Manga Mohammed, Ibrahim Babangida, Blessing Anyanwu, Karibe Ojigwe, Festus Okougha, Emmanuel Ebiede, who were all great players. But then Nigeria was unsettled, we had a political problem and crisis during the (Sani) Abacha regime and it limited the support we had from our people. Although we played well, there was tension. In the camp, we weren’t secure too. We prepared fine in Germany and came back home but all of a sudden, we started experiencing strange things. However, it’s part of life’s lessons. Today, if you look at the likes of Gideon Imagbudu, and some others, they made waves in Europe. Some of them are coaches, like Olumide Harris, and they are doing well in Europe. Did the failure at that competition shatter your dreams? No, it didn’t shatter my dreams because I got some offers after the tournament, from Belgium and Germany, but for some reasons it didn’t work out. But, I’ve come to understand that everything in life is a lesson. I thank God for everything because it’s not easy to put on the country’s jersey because Nigeria has lots of talents. I actually played for the senior national team too in a friendly game in 1999. You ended up playing in Azerbaijan and couldn’t play in any of the top European leagues… (Cuts in) Like I mentioned earlier, I got some offers which didn’t work out. My agent took me to Azerbaijan and I was told that the league there was okay. Upon my return to Nigeria, a friend advised that I should go into coaching rather than to continue playing in the NPFL because I was very young. Some clubs still owe me lots of money for the time I played in the league here but I was just playing for the passion I had for the game. I thank God today and I am happy because I see myself as a role model and I have a lot to offer to the younger ones. Many of your fans had expected to see you play more for the senior national team, what went wrong? I was invited to the Super Eagles but as a home-based player, I had to deal with competition from the overseas-based players. And I was unlucky because of the position that I played, there were very popular and great players playing in that same position and there was nothing I could do about it. There were some certain positions in the national team back then that were no go areas. I played as a left-back and I had some spectacular players like Celestine Babayaro and Ben Iroha to compete with. So, you could see why I couldn’t make it into the national team. On being a role model, you were banned for a year for indiscipline by the League Management Company after a clash with a rival team’s player last year. That’s certainly not a good example for the younger ones… In life things happen. I remember that day because I was fighting for my team. I took the team as if it was my life because I don’t joke with my job and that’s why I always want to give my best. But what happened that day was just unfortunate because I was trying to protect my team. And I must confess that the ban taught me lots of lessons. The ban made me to realise so many things and it also challenged me. There is no great man on earth that doesn’t have a challenge or that has not been mocked. Even in the Bible, some men of God faced challenges but when God takes you out, you learn and work on things that need to be adjusted. God used the ban to pass me a message and from it I learned and now I know the things I should do and what I should not do. I also thank God for seeing me through. My appreciation goes to everyone that worked tirelessly to see me return. It is a step forward in my career. During the ban, I worked on my farm. I grew up in the barracks, so I know how to farm. But while working on my farm with my son, I kept praying to God to touch the heart of the people at LMC so that I could return to coaching and I thank God He heard my prayers. The one-year ban was later reduced to seven months… (Cuts in) It was God’s intervention that had the ban reduced and that’s why I will forever remain grateful to God and to the LMC and the Nigeria Football Federation. I also realised that I needed to respect the laws of the LMC. There is no point trying to defend myself, but I’m happy that it is now a thing of the past. What are the chances of Sunshine Stars winning the league this season? For the past three to four seasons, Sunshine Stars have not been able to win two consecutive home matches but we were able to do that this season. And we’ve won matches even away from home. I will say that apart from Plateau United, Sunshine Stars happen to be the next best team. And we want to win the league this year because that is our target. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 