The Lagos State House of Assembly on Thursday said it had set up a committee to probe the crisis in the House and reconcile parties. The Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Security and Strategy, Tunde Braimoh, while insisting that the matter was overblown, noted that all the issues would be resolved. Two principal officers of the House, Rotimi Abiru (Chief Whip) and Olumuyiwa Jimoh (Deputy Majority Leader) were removed from their positions and replaced on Monday. Two other members, Moshood Osun and Adewale Raheem, were suspended for alleged gross misconduct and insubordination. The offices of the four lawmakers were sealed on Tuesday as their aides were also shut out. The problem was alleged to be the offshoot of a conflict between the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, and the Senator representing Lagos East in the National Assembly, Bayo Osinowo, aka Pepper. The four lawmakers were reported to be members of Pepper’s camp. However, during a briefing attended by most of the lawmakers on Thursday, the spokesperson for the House, Braimoh, said the members were united. “We have 40 members; almost everybody, principal officers, the speaker and members, are all here, except those on state duties and those under suspension. There is no problem that is beyond our resolution. Except that when things are being done rightly, there must be elements of discomfort along the line. When you are working and telling yourselves the truth, you must be serious. But we are not at each other’s jugular,” he added. While fielding questions from journalists on the actual offences of the lawmakers, Braimoh said raising the issues could aggravate the problem and damage the reconciliation process. He noted that a peace and reconciliation committee, headed by member representing Badagry Constituency I, Ibrahim Layode, had been asked to resolve the issues. “The only two offices constitutional recognised are offices of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker. Other principal positions are our in-house creation. More so, the procedure was followed. Every other thing will be resolved by the committee,” Braimoh added. The two new principal officers, Noheem Adams (Deputy Majority Leader) and Mojisola Miranda (Chief Whip) said they did not take the positions by desperation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 