Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Government impounded 38 vehicles for various traffic offences and prosecuted 42 persons for various environmental offences during an enforcement exercise. PUNCH Metro learnt that the Special Committee on the Clean-Up of Ikoyi and Victoria Island on Friday dislodged some illegal structures, parks, garages, transporters and traders, who converted the green areas and under the Obalende Bridge to a garage. It was gathered that several shanties, which served as brothels, were also destroyed, while some commercial sex workers were arrested. The enforcement teams also visited Odoo and Ojo streets, Obalende Road, Passport Road and Keffi Street, where illegal structures were dismantled and the items on sale were confiscated. The Director of Operations of the committee, Ayo Williams, stated that those arrested for various environmental offences were charged before the Lagos State Special Offences Mobile Court, Sura, and prosecuted accordingly. Williams, in a statement by the Director of Public Affairs, Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, Kunle Adeshina, was quoted to have said that the exercise was imperative to restore sanity to the area, adding that the team would secure all the cleared open spaces to prevent the return of miscreants to them. He said, “Some commercial vehicles were impounded at a beautification space that was converted to a motor park and many street traders were dislodged and their wares confiscated by the KAI operatives, who were part of the team. “A car that drove against the traffic at the frontage of the Ikoyi Cemetery along the Obalende Road was towed and the driver was arrested by the officers of the task force, while at the Obalende roundabout, near the Police Force Headquarters annex, an illegal market near the canal was sealed off with all the items on display seized. “A total of 42 persons were arrested for various environmental offences and 38 vehicles of different types were impounded, while the enforcement team destroyed all the illegal structures and shanties that harboured miscreants and the team ensured that the wreckage was evacuated by LAWMA trucks.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 