Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti A chieftain of the Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, Opeyemi Falegan, has said the return of former governor Segun Oni, to the PDP, will change the political calculations towards the Ekiti 2022 governorship race. Falegan said with Oni and others on board, the PDP would return to its winning ways in the state’s elections. The United Kingdom-based politician said this in a statement made available to journalists in Ado Ekiti on Sunday. He described Oni as “a fulcrum of political stability and good governance in Ekiti State and Nigeria as a whole.” Oni, a former Deputy National Chairman, South, of the All Progressives Congress, recently said he had concluded arrangements to lead his supporters back to the PDP in response to the shabby treatment they were receiving  in the APC. Falegan said, “The latest political journey of Engr. Oni, will, no doubt, go a long way in the political calculation, alignment and re-alignment towards the 2022 governorship election in Ekiti State and other subsequent polls in Nigeria. “The return of the politician who served as a governor under the same umbrella could only be best described as a homecoming of a political meteor.” Falegan said with Oni’s large followership, “the PDP will bounce back and wax stronger. The presence of the former governor is capable of bringing all issues negatively affecting the party to a halt.” The politician described Oni as a peacemaker and a selfless politician with eyes on good governance. He further said, “Nigeria can only develop politically and economically if people of honour and integrity are allowed to participate and contribute in the scheme of governance in the country.” Falegan congratulated all the PDP leaders, members and supporters at home and in the diaspora on the development and urged them to cooperate with the former governor to help rebuild the party. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  