As an up-and-coming musician, not much is known about you…
(Cuts in) My name is Atu Joseph Terver,  popularly known as Krazie Tee from Benue State.  I attended NKST Secondary School Mkar, Gboko. In 2016, I graduated from Benue State University, where I studied Psychology. Before then, I had also attended College of Education, Katsina-Ala, where I majored in Biology/Geography. What kind of music do you play?
I play western hip hop, which is originally from the United States of America. While growing up in Makurdi, we were used to foreign music, it was what was in vogue then. Tupac, Notorious Big, 50 cent and others were the ones we used to listen to those days. The love for hip hop is very strong here. Their dressing, way of life influenced us. So, do you think sports and music are related?
I’ve hardly been into sports in recent times. During my National Youth Service Corps year, I served in Uyo in Akwa Ibom State. This was where my eyes opened up to sports as a veritable tool for national cohesion, entertainment as well as a centre for my own education and development. I later saw it that there’s a strong relationship between sports and entertainment. In fact, musicians, sportsmen and women are involved together in entertaining people. In fact, before sportsmen enter their field of play, you see them with headphones. What do you think they are doing? Of course, they are listening to music! That’s very important. The relationship is so strong that musicians do songs with sports at its background. Alright, take a look at Olamide, he did a song for the Super Eagles with others during the World Cup in Russia. Falz the Bad Guy visited the Super Eagles during the World Cup in Russia too. Other musicians before now and even after have had one or two things to do with sports. Thus, I will say music and sports belong to the same mother. While in school, did  you participate in any sporting activities?
Yes. When I was still in elementary school, I was a football player in NKST in Gungul. However, I developed that deep love for volleyball in my secondary school at NKST, Gboko. In fact, I was among the football players for my primary school. However, in my secondary school, I took to playing volleyball because it’s not too physical like football. Which position did you play in as a footballer?
I was a No.11 because I use my left leg better than my right leg. So, the school coach deployed me to that position and when I look back today, I simply smile. If I had continued, maybe, I would be with the Super Eagles or playing in Europe by now. When you switched to volleyball, was there any time you felt like becoming a professional volleyball player?
 No. By the time I took to volleyball as a sport, music was uppermost in my mind. I never had any thought of playing volleyball as a professional or was there any time I thought of making it my career like I did with music. I was not even thinking of becoming a sportsman. I engaged in sports for the passion of it, not for its financial gains or its career appeal.  I was more about the music. Do you watch Nigeria’s local league?
Yes. I do. Which Nigerian club do  you know anything  about?
I served in Akwa United FC, Uyo. So, I can tell you a lot about the club. And don’t forget, I am from Benue State, Lobi Stars is our darling team here. For Akwa United, I see the dedication in both the staff of the club and the players.  It’s not only that, their chairman, when I was a Youth Corps member, is a God-fearing man. His name is Elder Paul Bassey. He made sure that the club ran smoothly. He created a world-class standard with the club and he did not let them fall behind in the scheme of things. In fact, when I was serving with the club, we used to pray and fast every week and that was in 2019. What do you think is the difference between European and African football?
The Europeans are truthful in their dealings. They plan for the future. They don’t use what we call ‘man know man’ in their football. If they have set a rule for anything, they follow it to the letter. It is all about ability and capability. Tribal, religious and ethnic sentiments will not allow Nigerian sports grow What is your take on the Super Eagles?
I don’t just like the attitude of most Super Eagles players to national duty. In fact, I rate the Super Falcons higher than the Eagles. These are guys that get everything from the football authorities, yet with nothing much to show for it. Look at the Falcons, they are the real African queens and champions. The Eagles have always disappointed Nigerians. Alright, who is your favourite player in the Super Eagles?
I like Ahmed Musa. That guy is always business-like on the pitch. He’s focused and determined. He does not disappoint at all. Do you have athletes as friends?
I have a lot. Don’t forget, I served in Akwa United. So almost all their players became my friends. Some are even out of Nigeria now. One of them is Barnabas Imenger Jnr, he’s a good friend. Then there’s Gabriel Wasa and many others that I cannot recollect their names again. These guys all played at Akwa United.
Alright, if you have N100m, can you invest it in a Nigerian club?
If I have such money, it will go into record label business than a club here in Nigeria. Clubs in Nigeria can sink one and destroy one’s dream. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    