John Alechenu, Abuja The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Mr Yekini Nabena, has announced himself as the party’s acting National Publicity Secretary. He made the announcement in a statement he signed in Abuja, on Sunday. Nabena explained that his action was based on a subsisting court order issued by a Sokoto State High Court restraining the APC from appointing or electing “Mallam Lanre Isa-Onilu or any member” into office except through a National Convention as enshrined in the party’s constitution. A Sokoto State High Court last week issued an interim injunction following an application filed by the APC National Vice Chairman (North-West), Inuwa Abdulkadir. Abdulkadir specifically urged the court to restrain the APC from appointing or electing “Issa-Onilu or any other person” into party positions pending the determination of the substantive suit. In a statement announcing his takeover, Nabena said, “The APC is a law-abiding party and as leaders of the party we must be seen doing the right thing at all times, including respecting the order of the court. In view of this, Mallam Onilu has begun the process of vacating the order of the Sokoto State High Court restraining him but pending the time this will be done I will act in his position. READ ALSO: Obaseki, Oshiomhole working to end rift – Gov’s aide “Unlike the former ruling party, the APC has high regard for the judiciary and we must be seen at all times practising what we preach.” Nabena assured the media and other stakeholders of his preparedness to respond to enquiries concerning the party’s position on national issues just as he appealed for the cooperation of all to enable him to succeed in his new assignment. Reacting to the development, the APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said, “There’s no such court judgement restraining me. He’s just chasing shadows. I’ll speak to it soon.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 