Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Legal luminary, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), said he did no wrong in the suit by the All Progressives Congress and its governorship candidate, David Lyon, to seek review of the Supreme Court judgment on Bayelsa State governorship election. Olanipekun and another legal icon, Chief Afe Babalola, who represented the APC and Lyon respectively in the review case, were fined N30m each by the Supreme Court for filing the review seeking suit on behalf of their clients. The suit had prayed the Supreme Court to review its judgment which declared the Peoples Democratic Party candidate, Chief Duoye Diri, winner of the Bayelsa State governorship poll following disqualification of the APC candidate, who was governor-elect, on the basis of the academic certificates of his running mate, Chief Degi Biobarakuma-Eremionye. The former NBA chairman, who spoke at Ikere Ekiti on Sunday during a thanksgiving service in commemoration of a multi-million naira ultra-modern 1,600 capacity church auditorium that he donated to the St. Peters Anglican Church, Ikere Ekiti, said the truth of the matter would be revealed with time. Olanipekun said, “I have not had any regret, I can tell you, in the profession of law that I have practised since 1976 when I was called to the bar, I thank God for what he has made out of me. I see it as a ministry. Forget about what you read, I have done no wrong. Truth will come out. READ ALSO: Suspense as Supreme Court hears Imo, Zamfara gov polls review “I haven’t done any wrong. I would be one of the few lawyers in Nigeria, who would say that I tried as much as possible to practise the profession in the best tradition of the bar, the best tradition of the legal profession. “At the end of the day, truth will come out. We thank God for everything. I won’t say more than that now,” the senior advocate said. Olanipekun said the church auditorium which he built and donated to the Anglican Communion was part of his contributions to the spiritual growth of his people and as well for the development of tourism potential of the state. According to him, his decision to locate his radio station which test transmission is ongoing at Ikere Ekiti, was borne out of his belief in the need to invest back home to “let Ikere people feel the ambience, let them feel the joy that they have the radio station around them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 