James Abraham, Jos The remains of the late Senator Ignatius Longjan, the senator representing Plateau South constituency in the National Assembly were laid to rest in in his country home in Quaan Pan Local Government Council, on Monday. His remains were buried after a requiem mass held at an St. Louis Catholic Church, Jos. The late lawmaker died recently while receiving treatment for an ailment at the Abuja-based Turkish Hospital. In his remarks at the interment, Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, described his late colleague as a devout Christian who rendered selfless service to God and the country, adding that very remarkable were his years of service as a career diplomat. He said Longjan died at a time his wealth of experience was needed most but enjoined the family to take solace in the fact that his legacies would continue to bear eloquent testimonies of his eventful life while on earth. Also speaking, the governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong, renamed the College of Arts, Science and Remedial Studies at Kurgwi, after the deceased. He expressed gratitude to the Senate delegation and other dignitaries who graced the occasion. Lalong urged the Plateau citizens to pray fervently so that coronavirus would run away just as the Ebola did when it reared its ugly head in the country, adding that “Corona virus will not be anything in Plateau State in Jesus name.” A former governor of the state,  Jonah Jang, under whom Longjan served as deputy, said, “Let me also place on the record that whatever we achieved as a government when I was privileged to serve as the governor of our state, could not have been possible without the unflinching loyalty, support, encouragement and contribution of the great son of Plateau, Senator Longjan.” Those who attended the event included the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, Senate Deputy President, Ovie Omo-Agege, Governor Simon Lalong, Senator Jonah Jang, Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mohammed Idris and the Gbong Gwom Jos, Da Jacob Gyang Buba. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  