Daud Olatunji Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun and his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun on Saturday attended the thanksgiving service to mark the 95th birthday of the Chief Executive Officer of Ladgroup, Prince Babatunde Onafowokan, at the Our Saviour Anglican Church in Ikenne, Ogun State. Prior to the event, the  duo  had not met in a public function  since last year. The  Archbishop of Lagos Province and Bishop of Remo Diocese, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Most Rev Olusina Fape invited Amosun and ex-governor Gbenga Daniel  to join  Abiodun on the rostrum in a  joint photograph  with  Onafowokan  in the church. But they refused to exchange pleasantries  as they only joined their host in  the  group photograph as initiated by the cleric  and left the church. Before they took the photograph,  Abiodun  had recognised the presence of Amosun and Daniel. Amosun was at the event with  his wife, Olufunsho, ex-Minister of Mines  and Steel Development, Sharafa Ishola, and his political associates. Abiodun,  who delivered both his speech and that of  Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo,  heap praise on  Onafowokan for his contribution to national development. Abiodun said, “Your life has been a selfless service to the community and the testimonial to the divine grace that surpasses all human understandings. “You are an accomplished or distinguished industrialist and also a philanthropist per excellence.” Osinbajo  said  the industrialist  as had motivated  many people in   Ikenne. He described  Onafowokan as an accomplished industrialist who  had helped the growth of the national economy. Fape described  pOnafowokan  as a peace-loving personality that had contributed immensely to the development of Ogun and the country at large. The  Akarigbo and Paramount Ruler of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi,  and  the founder of First City Monument Bank, Chief Subomi Balogun, were  among  the  personalities on the occasion. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    