During your first tenure, you worked on a new revenue formula it got to the National Assembly and got stuck. Where are we now on the new revenue Formula? The observation is correct. During my first tenure we commenced the process for the review of the revenue allocation formula in line with the relevant laws. We progressed to the point that the commission arrived at a formula that they felt was appropriate for the three tiers of government and in line with provisions of the relevant laws that we will make a presentation of our advice to the President for onward transmission to the National Assembly. The commission finished it’s own part but that was the point I left. It was inconclusive, it wasn’t rejected and when I came this time around, I said well this inconclusiveness, we have to conclude it but if you look at what  obtained in 2014 and now, a lot has changed. The security consideration is not the same, the environmental challenges are not the same. There are so many issues which need to be considered in addition to what it was and as such we felt that we need to constitute another committee that will look at all the variables, all the issues that were taken into consideration in the review and let us bring up a new advice to the President and that is exactly what we have done. Last year I inaugurated a new committee to review the revenue allocation formula, it is timely wishes of most Nigerians and it is one of our primary responsibilities. The committee has been constituted and has commenced work. In this process, so many things may not be seen until it gets to an advance level. The preliminary works they are doing now may not be noticed from outside because they have to do some studies on fiscal matters and areas that will be considered in arriving at the appropriate revenue sharing formula. Apart from this study they need to do a little review including what we did in 2014, it is after these preliminaries that they will come out with invitation for memorandum and progress to the point where they will require the inputs of relevant stakeholders. The federal government’s input, the state governments’ input, the national assembly’s input, the judiciary, the local governments, civil societies and so on. And we can hold a public hearing on it so this is the situation now.  It may be difficult to give a time frame because so many variables are not within ones control. There are so many variables that will determine the time. That is not within our control but we will do our best to get it done within a reasonable time. The Commission has been advocating for states to device creative ways in generating revenue rather than rely on federal allocation but some states still depend on federal allocation. Why is this so? I don’t believe that it is not working. It hasn’t work as well as we expected. If you go through all the states, ask for their Internally Generated Revenue as at 2012 and what it is today, I am telling you most of the states have doubled. We have started receiving money from solid mineral into the federation account. It wasn’t there. So many states are holding advocacies and enlightenment on how to make the environment better for solid mineral sector to progress. You know the quantity of rice that is being produced now wasn’t the same and other areas of diversification. We should be able to let the states know that they have gold at their backyard and they are looking for silver somewhere else. There is no state in this country that doesn’t have one form of mineral resource or the other. There is no state that doesn’t have enough arable land. I remember when we were young, they use to collect bicycle tax. If you look at the exclusive list and the concurrent list, the tax area where local government can collect, there are so many areas they don’t collect their taxes and because they come here every month to collect money, some of them are not exploiting the opportunities they have at home. I’m happy that several states have started to key into this area and they are making impact. Go and check the records, you will see some states have doubled their IGR between that time and now. So we are making progress but we want to appeal to everybody to come into this and help us to let our people know the need to diversify; oil will finish one day. In fact, if we develop the solid mineral sector properly I can assure you it is going to contribute more than what the oil and gas are contributing now and it is more sustainable. The agriculture, we are blessed with vast arable land. Why can’t we make the best use of it? We should go and learn what other people did and diversify and the government is more committed than ever in this process, we are not there but we are making progress. What is the status of the Commission’s probe of 22 banks over non- remittance of stamp duties? I am not aware that the commission said that they were going to probe 22 banks over stamp duty. What I am aware of is that the commission carried out verification and reconciliation of banks that collect revenue on behalf of government; those banks that collect revenue for FIRS, Customs and any other source of revenue for government. We want to look at their books: when did you receive this money? When did you remit it to the revenue generation account? Did you remit appropriately and on time? Because if somebody collects your N1bn and trades with it for one month, it is not the same amount and so these are the verifications they did and we are progressing. We are concluding that of 2015 and we have placed advert, inviting prospective consultants for reconciliation and verification of these collecting agencies from January 2016 to December 2019. The process is still going on. The process for procurement is still going on now but as for the stamp duty, if you read the present Finance Act, it is very clear on that, any transaction that is below N10,000 will not attract stamp duty but once it is above ₦10,000 you will pay. There was a protest recently by NIPOST workers over right to collection of the Stamp Duty. Who is now collecting the Stamp Duty in Nigeria? I am aware there was a representation from NIPOST. But, the commission does not make law. And the commission’s responsibility does not include collection of taxes. We monitor to check, verify, and police, which remains our job. But as for who collects it, the law is what I will go for. If the Act says it is FIRS, so be it! Whoever is collecting it, I will check whether it’s remitting. Who are you monitoring now? We monitor the source. For instance, we have said now that we are going to collecting agencies. When this work commences, they will go to collecting agencies. There are several government revenues which one collects? Where is it paid to? if it is paid to bank. Like the one we did, we didn’t go to FIRS we went to where they pay it in, because we don’t collect taxes. If bank A is the collecting bank, we ask bank A let’s see your document, let’s see what you have and then we check. We are not interested on who is the collecting agency. What we are interested in is who is holding our money, is it getting to government? From the source to destination, anything different, we question. There has been several controversies over remittances by Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation into the Federation Account. Has NNPC been complying with appropriate remittance into the Federation Account? FAAC has a standing committee called postmortem where all collecting agencies, all issues about remittance from FAAC deliberations are digested and all the agencies come into that sub-committee meeting to present their papers. I am aware they have sometimes establish shortfalls in some of the agencies and when it is established, the agency will refund. So if you want to get details of that you need to go to FAAC file. I don’t have the details but I am aware that this is a routine thing that goes on every time and it has been happening. There  has been agitation over the planned review of the salaries of public office holders,  why do you think it is necessary to embark on that decision now and do you think it will see the light of day? First and foremost, we are established by law and the law in this circumstance is the Constitution, it has clearly spelt out our responsibility and those responsibilities are very clear. One of them is to determine the remuneration appropriate for public and judicial office holders. So it is our job. We can’t go to get permission to do our job. So in that respect you will believe me that it should be reviewed and it is part of our responsibility and President charged us on the day he inaugurated us to do everything to increase the size of the cake, block leakages and reduce the cost of governance. So we are following the law establishing us and I don’t want to be pessimistic. I want you to make contribution to ensure that it succeeds. Why shouldn it not succeed? It is we that will determine it;   I can tell you the much that I know and read, an average Nigerian wants it reviewed. But what they have been asking me and I don’t want to say or to give an answer before we arrive, is if it’s going to be up or down. What I have always said is that this is a process, at the end of the process we will determine what it will be. So don’t ask me whether it will be down or up, I won’t say. Let the process flow and at the end the result will come out. When you say input, what exactly do you mean? The first one is that we will make an advert inviting people. We will write to institutions. We will write the executive through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, the National Assembly through the Clerk of the National Assembly, we will write the head of the Judiciary, we will write ALGON,  Governors’ Forum, write to Local governments, State governments to make inputs as institutions. They will make inputs because they are also bearing the brunt. I have seen some complaints from some governors about their problems of paying some of their allowances. This is the time for everybody to make inputs and after that there will be public hearing where we are all opportuned to make inputs. Every Nigerian is free to make input. So it is going to be an open process and I can assure you that whatever inputs people make will be considered. The only prayer is that don’t expect that it must be yours, because it is the input of majority of Nigerians and we must  not  politicise it. When you finish the public officeholders’ salary review, will it be subject to ratification or approval by any body? Yes, there are two types of review. For the legislature, whatever we determine is final – from the council level to the National Assembly. It is not subject to debate by any legislative house, what the commission determines is final. But that of the executive, we go into legislative process but whatever they decide will not come higher than what we determined. So the legislature has right to deliberate on executive and judicial aspect but the legislative aspect, what commission has determined is final. Does the commission now have adequate representation as required by law? No,  we have 29 states represented now, so we are still expecting eight. The President appoints them subject to the confirmation of the Senate. To what extent has the policy of monetisation worked for the country? Now let’s not preempt what will come out. I said here that we intend to invite memoranda to give inputs, that input includes what is operating now  -should it be continued? What aspect of it should be considered? These are inputs that will come from you and others, because it is not my own decision. It is the law and what Nigerians want that will come to pass. The question will be what was the intention of having that policy in place? If you now establish the intention  -how far has it satisfy the intention? If it is the intention of reducing the expenditure of public office holders, one will say if you look at the cost, it is reduced. The thing is, if there is any abuse that is a different thing because if you read the monetisation law, you will find that part of what was intended is to reduce cost because one public officer use to have about twenty something vehicles when he came. I was one of those that lost in terms of that. I didn’t benefit from the old system. I came here as a minister, I thought my day was made at least for vehicles. I came here without a vehicle and I had no vehicle, I had to go back to the village to pick my old vehicle to start working here. I used my private vehicle, so ideally you should drive your private vehicle to the office . Then during the official duties, you should use the government vehicle and at the end of the day it will drive you home and come back. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    