John Ameh, Abuja The Federal Government has begun consultations with relevant stakeholders on a possible reduction of the pump price of petrol in the wake of the crash of crude oil prices globally. The Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Mr Timipre Sylva, disclosed this in Abuja on Friday. He spoke with State House Correspondents after the committee inaugurated by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to assess the impact of coronavirus on the economy, met with him (Buhari) at the Presidential Villa. Sylva clarified that no decisions had been taken to cut the pump price, but said consultations were on. “We are still consulting, we are still following it closely. Of course, usually, the product prices follow the crude oil price but we are still consulting. “We will get back to you, please, be patient!”  he stated. The price of Brent crude was $34.50 on Friday, a figure far below the $57 budgeted for the 2020 budget. Crude prices have witnessed a steady fall since January, down from the $60 it was when Buhari signed the N10.59tn budget into law in December. However, the pump price of petrol has remained at N145 per litre, in spite of reports by fuel import monitors that landing cost has also dropped lately. Nigeria, an oil-producing country, imports refined petroleum for domestic consumption at a high pump price, leaving holes in the pockets of consumers. There have been strident calls for cuts in the pump price since the crude prices began a downward swing in January but the government has yet to heed to the calls. Ahmed spoke after a meeting with Buhari at the State House. “So, as of Tuesday this week, we have released N285bn to a number of agencies. We prioritise the releases to the critical infrastructure agencies. “But, we have also made the releases for education as well as health. So, the ministries of Transportation; Works and Housing; Niger Delta; and a number of ministries and agencies that have important infrastructural projects have got their funds,” she said. She added that another $220m was released as counterpart funding for railway projects by the Ministry of Transportation. The budget is now facing implementation challenges amid the crash in crude oil prices owing to the outbreak of coronavirus. Asked whether Nigeria’s reluctance to suspend flights to and from high-risk countries was to due to the effects it might have on the economy, Ahmed replied that it was the government’s medical team that would decide if a ban or suspension was necessary. “As far as I know, the assessment of the Nigerian medical team is not yet available, and as far as I know, the international community has been commending the efforts of the Nigerian medical team in trying to protect Nigerians from being infected with this disease. “So, we will manage the economy by prioritising what we can do during the period that there will be slow activities so that when things pick up, everything will go back to normal,” she said. Also commenting on the impact of the coronavirus on the economy, the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Emefiele, described as needless the activities of foreign exchange speculators, whom he said created anxiety in the currency market lately. He said, “We have released a circular to say there is no need to panic; anybody who has legitimate business will get foreign exchange to conduct their business. “What are we saying? If you want to travel, which we don’t advise at this time, you will get foreign exchange to travel. You want to conduct business or import? You will get foreign exchange to conduct that import transaction. “Whatever you need foreign exchange to do, there is no need for panic.” Emefiele said to prevent the panic in the forex market, the apex bank had begun collaboration with the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit and other security agencies. “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission is also working with us to establish the people who are involved and I can tell you that we will find them because they use accounts,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  