Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja A Federal High Court in Abuja on Friday struck out a suit challenging the process of appointing justices of the Supreme Court. The National Judicial Council had at its meeting on October 22 and 23 recommended four new Supreme Court justices to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), for appointment. They are justices Adamu Jauro (North-East Zone); Emmanuel Agim (South-South Zone); C. Oseji (South-South Zone); and Helen Ogunwumiju (South-West Zone). Shortly after the recommendation became public, a Lagos-based group, Access to Justice, through its Registered Trustees, challenged the process leading to the choice of the four justices nominated for elevation. The plaintiff claimed, among others, that the Federal Judicial Service Commission did not fully comply with the provisions of the law in appointing the four justices. The respondents are the Federal Judicial Service Commission, the NJC, Chief Justice of Nigeria, Senate and the President. The originating summons was issued on November 27 and brought pursuant to Order 3 Rule 3 & 9(1)(2) of the Civil Procedure Rules, 2019. It was also filed pursuant to rules 1, 2(a)(b), 3(1)(2)(3),4, 5 and 6 of the National Judicial Council Guidelines and Procedure Rules for the appointment of judicial officers of all superior courts of record in Nigeria. In the judgment on Friday, Justice Inyang Ekwo held that the plaintiff lacked the locus standi to initiate the suit and hence struck it out. He said, “I must state that Nigeria does not yet have a statutory framework for the registration or operation of non-governmental organisations. “In other words, there is no legislation that deals with the registration and operation of NGOs in Nigeria and I hope the National Assembly and even the applicant will take serious note of the vacuum. “The perception of the applicant that registration of NGOs can be done under Part C of the CAMA (Companies and Allied Matters Act) does not reflect the intent of the legislature. “I am sure that if the applicant had indicated to the Corporate Affairs Commission that the real objective in its mind is to engage in public interest litigation of the nature of this suit, the CAC would have refused to register it under Part C of the CAMA. “If the applicant is now telling this court that its locus standi to engage in public interest litigation is by virtue of its registration under Section 590(1) of the CAMA, then registration was camouflage and fraud and ought to be revoked. “I, therefore, make an order striking out this action for lack of locus standi of the applicant.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   