Gibson Achonu,  Owerri The Imo State Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency has arrested two persons for allegedly dealing in methamphetamine, also known as Mkpuru Mmiri; ice or Guzoro; Indian hemp; cocaine and heroin, in Owerri. One Gasike Amadi, 30, who hails from Uburu Okpala in the Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of the state, was arrested with 26.2 grams of methamphetamine and 9.7 kilograms of Indian hemp, while Kingsley Ehirim, 33, of No. 7 Odeagu Street, Owerri, was arrested with 3.5 grams of cocaine and 7.2 grams of heroin. Briefing journalists in the state, the assistant state Commander, Operations and Intelligence, NDLEA, Mr Raji Kayode, said the suspects were arrested on Wednesday at their respective residences following a tip-off. “We have been trailing them following the information gathered about them. We decided to strike on Wednesday around 6pm and we got them. Our intelligence officers really did a great job,” he stated. Kayode noted that the mode of concealment of the drugs was interesting as the engine of a 40-inch television was removed, including the back of the screen, and the space was used to carefully conceal the illegal products. He stated that it took the dexterity of the intelligence operatives of the agency to discover the products concealed in the TV set. He stated that the second suspect, Ehirim’s human right was taken into consideration because of the agency’s respect for the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act as the suspect said he would not to talk unless his lawyer was around. “We only respected the Act because it was stated in it that a suspect had a right to talk or remain silent, because anything said by him would be used against him in the court of law,” Kayode added. Amadi told journalists that he was arrested on Wednesday less than 10 minutes after his consignment arrived. “I reside in the Glo mast area located at Site and Services World Bank, Owerri. That was where I was with the goods they brought for me when the operatives of the agency swooped on me and arrested me,” he stated. Amadi said the goods were estimated at N40,000, adding that he would have made about N60,000 if he had sold them. The suspect, who said he was a security man at the Glo mast area, noted that he used the business to argument his N10,000 monthly salary. The father of three, who stated that he smokes Indian hemp, said he had been in the business for some time, but that day of his arrest was the first time he dealt with the supplier. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 