Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Workers of the Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti on Thursday led their students, school pupils and residents along Ado Ekiti-Afe Babalola University-Ikare Road to protest the collapsed Ureje Bridge along the federal road. The workers, under the aegis of the three industrial unions in their institution – Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnics and Non-Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, said that the bridge, which was constructed over 100 years ago, had turned a death trap for the people of Ekiti State. Residents of the area  as well as artisans and commercial vehicle and okada riders joined the workers to air their grievances on the bridge which was washed away by the rains and had since not been attended to by the Federal Government. Traffic was at a halt along the road which links Ekiti State to Ondo State and Abuja and it lasted for hours. The protesters criticised the Federal Government for delaying action on the bridge which needed reconstruction since it collapsed last year. In a statement jointly signed by the chairmen of the three polytechnic unions – Dr Bisi Olasehinde (ASUP), Dr Israel Ayeni (SSANIP) and Abubakar Sunday (NASU), the workers stated, “We are here as trade unions to embark on this peaceful protest to draw the attention of the Federal Government to the deadly condition of Ureje Bridge along the FPA Road in Ado Ekiti. “We are calling on the Federal Government to declare the road as a death trap and that, as a matter of urgency, President Muhammadu Buhari should mandate the Minister of Works, Babatunde Fashola, to instantly address the bridge’s reconstruction before the 2020 rainy season totally render the bridge impassable. READ ALSO: UNILAG suspends convocation over management tussle “We want to say without mincing words that if the Federal Government failed to promptly heed our call, we would have no choice but relocate our offices to Ureje Bridge and further protest to the National Assembly for the sack of the Work’s Minister. “This protest became necessary because of the failure of the Federal Government to attend to the situation of Ureje Bridge over the years. “We are here to inform the whole world and remind Nigerians that during the last rainy season, Ureje Bridge claimed lives and destroyed property worth millions of naira and caused serious havoc to students and staff of FPA and ABUAD in particular and  the people of Ekiti State in general. “Unfortunately, the cries and complaints of the people to the Federal Government on the deplorable condition of the bridge had fallen to the selective deaf hears of the government.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 