Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi A manufacturing firm, Daraju Industries Limited is partnering the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria and the management of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two, Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited to enlighten air travellers on the prevention of coronavirus spread. The firm made this known on Friday when it presented FAAN with washing liquid, hand sanitisers, facial wipes and other products at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. The Chief Operations Officer of Daraju, Captain Mukherjee, said it was part of the company’s effort to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 epidemic in the country, adding that the sensitisation would last for one month. He said, “In many instances, infectious disease originated in a foreign country extends into other countries through the international airports and other ports of entry such as the case of the Ebola epidemic in 2014. Therefore, the ports are essentially frontlines to prevent, tackle or curb the disease from spreading into a country. “Hence, we deem it appropriate, in partnership with FAAN, to deploy our Fressia hand sanitisers and other hand-hygiene solutions in the airport as a demonstration of our corporate social responsibility. In this case, we are expressing this responsibility by supporting the existing efforts by FAAN and other relevant government stakeholders in tackling possible foray of the COVID-19 outbreak into the country.” The Terminal Manager, MMIA, Mr Olatokunbo Arewa, said COVID-19 was a global concern, adding that every company operating in the country should be involved. “People come and go in their thousands; so to prevent the spread of the disease, people need to disinfect themselves and surfaces. We might have cases because people are still coming into the country but what matters is what we are doing to prevent the spread of the disease,” he said. According to him, two other companies are partnering FAAN on ways to control the virus from spreading through the airports. He said FAAN was also working with the Lagos State Government, adding that if anyone showed symptoms related to coronavirus, the person would undergo secondary screening. And if confirmed, he would be quarantined. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    