Deji Lambo A 66-year-old haulage and logistics operator, Tajudeen Abdulraheem, has accused men of the Nigeria Police Intelligence Response Team, led by one Inspector Festus, of allegedly kidnapping him, detaining him illegally, torturing and extorting him in the Government Reservation Area of Ikeja, Lagos State. Abdulraheem told PUNCH Metro that an IRT officer, who pretended to be a customer, called him on the telephone on Saturday, February 22, 2020, and said he wanted to rent a warehouse for his goods. He said he and the supposed customer reached an agreement and scheduled a time for them to meet on the same day. Before the meeting, Abdulraheem said he went to discuss the supposed customer’s request with the manager of a warehouse in the Sanya area of the Surulere Local Government Area of the state. The sexagenarian then invited the customer to the warehouse for an inspection, but the man convinced him to meet him at a nearby hotel, where he was arrested and taken to the IRT office in Ikeja. He stated that he was detained and tortured at the IRT office for 10 days and the operatives allegedly extorted N450,000 from him. Abdulraheem said, “When I got to the 34 Hotel in Sanya, the customer and his team members started interrogating me. It was at that point that I knew that they were policemen. They asked if I knew one Tunde, and I said yes, because he is one of my competitors in the haulage business. They asked for Tunde’s address but I told them I didn’t know it. “My phone was seized and I was bundled into their vehicle and driven to the IRT office in Ikeja GRA, where I was detained for 10 days and denied access to my family. “While in detention, they didn’t allow me to write a statement. I was hardly fed and stripped naked. I was tortured to confess to a crime I am innocent of. I know the policemen when I see them. “At first, the policeman, who led the team, Festus, said Tunde collected N1m from him and ran away; later he said Tunde stole a truck laden with cocoa and worth N19m. “The officers used a baton to hit my joints. When the torture became too much, I didn’t know when I started saying that they should kill me rather than force me to confess to what I didn’t do.” The Oyo State indigene condemned the policemen for subjecting him to such inhuman treatment, adding that a cellmate, who was released before him, helped to contact his wife so that his whereabouts could be known. He said, “I had to give my wife’s number to the cellmate, who informed her of my location. If not for that, my family wouldn’t have known my whereabouts. It was when my wife started pestering them that they allowed me to contact my lawyer, who assisted in securing my bail. “Aside the N420,000 that the policemen collected from me while I was in their custody, they also collected N30,000 from my wife before releasing me on March 2.” Abdulraheem’s wife, Funke, who said a search party was organised for her husband when his whereabouts became unknown, condemned the policemen for denying him access to his family. She said, “I was scared and blamed people for his disappearance. I called his colleagues, who told me that they didn’t know his whereabouts. He just told me that he wanted to attend an important meeting and didn’t return. “When I didn’t hear from him, I went to report at the Ojo Police Station, where I wrote a statement. The station radioed other stations to know if he was with them. “On the sixth day, an unknown person called to inform me that my husband was being detained at the IRT office in Ikeja. I went there to find out and a policeman, Festus, told me to pay N50,000 for his release. But I pleaded with him to collect N30,000 before he was released. It is wrong for them to have arrested him and deny him access to his family.” The counsel for Abdulraheem, Saidi Sanni, who said he had petitioned the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, stated that he would institute a legal action against the police to get justice for his client. “I intend to challenge this ungodly act in the court. We are instituting a legal action for breach of fundamental human right against the Nigeria Police and Inspector Festus,” Sanni stated. When contacted, the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, told PUNCH Metro, “I can’t confirm the veracity of that story for now. I will liaise with the IRT commander to get the facts.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 