Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire and Immigration Services Board, which is the Federal Government organ in charge of the paramilitary services, has barred persons who stammer or have “gross malformation of teeth” from applying for superintendent, inspectorate and assistant cadre positions in the ongoing Nigerian Immigration Service recruitment. Also barred from applying are persons with crossed-eye, bow leg, knocked knees (k-legs), flat foot, limb legs and those suffering from obesity. This was stated in a circular by the Secretary, Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire and Immigration Services Board, Al-Hassan Yakmut, on Friday. The document read in part, “Applicants with any of the following physical challenges need not apply: Impediment in speech (stammer/dumb), gross malformation of teeth, knocked knees, bent knees, bow leg, k-legs, flat foot, limb legs, bent arms/deformed hands/fracture, defective eyesight (squint eye, crossed eye, one-eyed and total blindness). READ ALSO: UNICEF backs Osun education policy reversal “Amputation of any part of physical body, hearing impairment (deaf), hunched back, medical challenges, any physical deformity not mentioned. Note that due to the rigour of the physical exercise in the recruitment process, women with pregnancy need not apply.” According to the document, those applying for the superintendent rank must have a medical degree and must have completed their National Youth Service Corps programme. Applicants for the deputy superintendent rank must have a degree in Pharmacy while those applying for the assistant superintendent position must possess a minimum of first degree and must have completed NYSC. Male applicants must be at least 1.65m (5ft4) tall while females must be at least 1.60m (5ft2). Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 