Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja Some finance and economic experts on Monday urged the Central Bank of Nigeria to compel the Deposit Money Banks to reduce the high interest rate currently being charged by banks on lending. They said with the current economic challenges facing the country as a result of the outbreak of the coronavirus, time had come for banks to reduce their lending rates in order to support the growth of key sectors of the economy. Those that spoke to our correspondent in separate telephone interviews were a professor of economics at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, Sheriffdeen Tella; former Director-General, West African Institute of Financial and Economic Management, Prof. Akpan Ekpo, and a former Deputy Governor of the CBN, Dr Obadiah Mailafia. While the Monetary Policy Rate of the CBN is pegged at 13.5 per cent, the lending rate by banks to businesses hovers between 20 and 26 per cent. The Monetary Policy Committee is currently meeting in Abuja to review the monetary and economic conditions and recommend measures for the next two months. Expo said, “The MPC should leave the MPR at the same rate. What it needs to do is that the Cash Reserves Ratio should be increased a little bit. “We have already adjusted the exchange rate, which will affect prices and so inflation will be a big problem, which would affect prices. “The MPR does not have any impact on the lending rate. It only has impact on the interbank rate. So, they should leave it the way it is. “While the CBN has reduced the rate on intervention fund from nine per cent to five per cent, it should directly ask the banks to also reduce lending rate. “In other words, lending rate of about 25 per cent which is the rate at which the banks lend to customers, the CBN can intervene and ask the banks for benchmark. “It is the CBN that can tell the banks that because of this problem we are going through they should reduce lending rate to between 10 and 12 per cent.” Tella also said the lending rates should be reduced to stimulate economic activities. He said, “There is a need to provide funds to cushion the impact of Covid-19 on the economy. “The CBN is caught in the web between prices going up and to provide credit for the real sector. “If you look at it that the prices going up is not because of increase in money supply but shortage of product, then we should reduce the interest rate in lending by reducing the bank rates so as to encourage banks to attract many investors to borrow money at a lower rate and be able to use it for investments.” Similarly, Malaifa said that the reduction in interest rate would boost confidence in the economy. He said, “The CBN should loosen up a bit. They should loosen the monetary parameters a little bit so that it can boost confidence and lift up borrowing in the economy. “It will help to boost some level of confidence in the economy. The CBN should also step up the implementation of some of the initiatives that they have already announced.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 