Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The National Boundary Commission has said it will begin  mapping of  the boundary between Imo and Rivers states on April 27. Crisis has enveloped the  communities along the boundary over boundary claims  since 2003. But the  NBC on Friday  directed the two states to re-submit  documents relating to the boundary on or before April 3 for screening and authentication between April 6 and 8. This was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of a joint meeting between the  officials of Imo and Rivers interstate boundary in Abuja on Friday. The meeting presided over by the acting NBC Director-General, Adamu Adaji, was also attended by the Deputy Governor and Chairman, Imo State Boundary Committee, Prof  Placid Njoku; Deputy Governor and Chairman, Rivers State Boundary Committee, Dr Ipalibo Banigo; and Director, Internal Boundaries, Mr Adeyemi Adebomehin, who represented the Surveyor General of the Federation. They said  the dispute could not be resolved since 2003 due to unforeseen circumstances, adding that resources along the boundary corridor constituted issues of concern to be addressed. The communiqué said, “The meeting discussed the issues in a convivial atmosphere and resolved that the physical tracing of the boundary be resuscitated without further delay; that the two states should re-submit relevant documents for use on the boundary on or before April 3. “The NBC and the two states shall meet in Abuja to screen and authenticate all documents submitted from April 6 to 8 and the joint sensitisation  to the affected border communities shall be carried out from April 15  to 22 while fieldwork shall commence from April 27 and last for two months.” The meeting  told the boundary communities to continue to maintain peace. Adaji  said  the meeting was convened to review  the previous efforts on the boundary and to fast-track the process. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   