Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja Lagos-based preacher, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has asked the Presidency to address the rumours surrounding Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. Bakare, who is the Serving Overseer, Dominion Hall, Citadel Global Community Church (formerly Latter Rain Assembly) said this while delivering a sermon on Sunday. There have been reports in the last couple of months about a strained relationship between Osinbajo and the cabal at the Presidency which culminated in the sacking and redeployment of some of the Vice-President’s aides. Osinbajo was also relieved of some duties such as overseeing the Social Investment Programme and the economic advisory team. Bakare, however, said there was a need for the Presidency to speak up. He said, “It is my considered opinion that all the rumour mills and things going around the Vice-President in this nation, the government must address this country and tell the plain truth about what is going on instead of letting people to continue to make guesses that are unprofitable for our nation or anybody. “And if they don’t want to say anything, then let them not say but stop this nonsense that is going on. You have a moral responsibility to account for the mess that is going on if you don’t stop it.” Bakare, who was running mate to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2011, said he never begged to be Buhari’s running mate. He said no one could relegate him having “gained access” to the mountain. The cleric added, “I didn’t apply to be running mate. I was minding my business when I was called. They gave me access into the mountain and you can’t check me out of the place. No.” Bakare said the Bible “is replete with examples of persons who were nowhere but God elevated them.” He said characters like Joseph and David received accelerated promotion and ensured that they utilised the opportunity to the full. The cleric compared that to the case of Osinbajo. Bakare stated, “I am not sure Osinbajo was a party man. I am not sure he was there when the APC was being formed. I moved the motion for the merger of the CPC and the ACN at the Eagle Square. He was not anywhere around there that day. In fact, I can tell you that he went to the Supreme Court to argue a case on that day when they were looking for him… one day I will tell you the story of what transpired that night. “Until the kings of the mountain give you access, you cannot do anything on that mountain. But when they give you access, you must know how to carry yourself upon the mountain.” ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 