Operators in Nigeria’s agricultural space are entering into partnerships to boost the production of selected crops through the use of soil specific fertilisers, Okechukwu Nnodim reports Public and private enterprises in the agricultural sector are making efforts to efficiently grow the industry through the use of improved inputs by farmers across the country. In a bid to achieve this, operators in the sector are targeting the development of selected crops through the deployment of soil specific fertilisers that would adequately enhance the yields of these crops. Also, the Federal Government recently unveiled the National Fertiliser Quality Control Act to ensure that fertilisers produced, distributed and sold to farmers across the country met the required standards in terms of quantity and quality This came as senior management officials from four organisations signed a tripartite cooperation agreement for the development of crops and soil specific fertilisers for tomatoes and oil palm crop. The officials explained that it was important for operators in the sector to collaborate to develop sustainable and innovative solutions to address key barriers to the full realisation of the agricultural growth potential in Nigeria. They stated that this would be achieved by supporting site and crop specific fertiliser formulations that would enhance soil fertility status and improve farmers’ productivity. The Managing Director, OCP Africa, renowned firm in the phosphate industry, Mohammed Hettiti, stated that to enhance the yields of the selected crops, OCP Africa entered into partnership with three agricultural agencies in Nigeria. The agencies include the Institute of Agricultural Research and Training, National Institute for Horticultural Research, and National Institute for Oil Palm Research. Hettiti said the agreement with NIHORT and IART was for the development of crops and soil specific fertilisers for tomatoes, adding that the cooperation with NIFOR and IART was for oil palm crop. He stated that as part of the agreement, OCP Nigeria, an arm of OCP Africa, would among other things provide funding to the partners for the conduct of the project in accordance with the terms of the agreement. He said the fertiliser firm would also provide any relevant information and assistance which were reasonably necessary to conduct the project. “The cooperation agreement is the cumulative result of a lot of hard work, research and several coordinated efforts between OCP Nigeria and its partners at NIHORT, NIFOR and IART. OCP Africa will continue working together with local partners to develop specialty fertilisers for many different focus crops in Nigeria,” Hettiti said. The Executive Director, NIHORT, Abayomi Olaniyan, said the partnership would further enhance the ability of his agency to meet its mandate, particularly in the production of tomatoes. He said, “NIHORT has the mandate to make tomatoes available and sustainable in Nigeria and it has the resources to support the opportunity being offered by OCP Africa. “Furthermore, our strategic locations across the geo-political zones of the country will offer us the opportunity to produce good result on the collaboration.” Olaniyan further stated that NIHORT would utilise the opportunity to add value to the production of tomatoes , especially the fertiliser requirement of the crop, which had been difficult to obtain hitherto. He revealed that the supply of tomatoes was below demand across the country. According to him, about three million metric tonnes of tomatoes were required per year but production had been about 1.8 million metric tonnes, adding that it recently scaled up to 2.3 million metric tonnes. Olaniyan expressed the hope that with the partnership, the production of tomatoes would reach national requirement and there would be more commodities for export in order to add to the nation’s foreign reserve. Describing the collaboration as timely, the Executive Director, NIFOR, Celestine Ikuenobe, said farmers in Nigeria had not been producing optimally. He noted that the ability to achieve potential yield was beyond having the right seed, adding that it involved having the right input and in the right proportion. He said the collaboration, among other things, would enable his agency carry out proper soil mapping to determine the type of nutrient and quantity in the soil. “It will also enable the formulation of location specific and specialty fertiliser for the oil palm. The oil palm is a highly regarded plant which has comparative advantage,” Ikuenobe stated. He stated that with the collaboration with OCP Africa, coupled with investments in the oil palm industry in Nigeria, the country would experience an upsurge in oil palm production. According to him, the partnership would enable NIFOR to prepare ahead to meet the input requirements of farmers in the sector. On the recently unveiled National Fertiliser Quality Control Act, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Sabo Nanono, said the document would support the appropriate use of fertilisers by operators. He explained that the Act was for the regulation of the manufacturing, importation, sales/distribution, as well as quality control of fertilisers across the country. For the manufacturers, producers, blenders, importers and distributors, the minister said the Act would provide a conducive environment for fertiliser enterprises to grow, including protecting investments in the sector. “For the farmers, they are to be protected against access to nutrient-deficient and adulterated fertilisers as well as short-weight bags of fertilisers. This is to ensure that farmers get value for every kobo spent on buying fertilisers for farming,” Nanono said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 