Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Sunday, visited the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, at the monarch’s residence in Ibadan, in respect of a letter written to him on March 12 by the monarch. The Alaafin said he wrote the letter on behalf of other monarchs in Yorubaland, including the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona; and the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Gbadebo Adedotun. According to him, the letter became necessary in view of the treatment being meted to the Ekiti traditional institution and its overall effects on the Yoruba culture. In a telephone interview with our correspondent on Sunday, the Chief Press Secretary to Fayemi, Yinka Oyebode, said the governor’s visit was as a result of his respect for the culture and tradition of the Yoruba. Oyebode said, “The governor paid a visit to Kabiyesi, the Alaafin of Oyo, so that he could explain the situation of things regarding the traditional institution in Ekiti State to him in a meeting rather than writing a letter; it is a matter of courtesy. “They had a fruitful discussion on the matter. What happened is a follow- up to the letter written by the Alaafin. The governor said it was important for him to meet the Kabiyesi. “The visit was to shed light on some fundamental issues raised by the royal father in the letter; to accord him the deserved respect and to explain things. “As someone who has respect for our culture as well as our traditional institution, Governor Kayode Fayemi felt that it would be better to go to the Alaafin of Oyo and explain things to him as a father to son.”
Oyebode, who described the visit as rewarding, said, “You will recall that the Kabiyesi wrote the governor on the traditional institution in Ekiti State. The governor, being a man of culture and a respectable Yoruba man, went to explain things. It was an exchange of views between a father and a son.” Recall that Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers had, however, in a letter signed by its Chairman, and the Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Ajibade, written to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, urging him to caution Alaafin against interfering in matters relating to the traditional institution in Ekiti.