Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, has said that the Federal Government will soon stop the salaries of its workers not captured on the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System. She said this in Kano State at the 2020 management retreat organised by the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation for treasury directors of finance and accounts and directors of internal audit. Ahmed also said the Federal Government had approved the posting of treasury directors from the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation to revenue generating agencies as directors of revenue. The IPPIS scheme is one of the Federal Government’s reform initiatives designed to achieve a centralised payroll system. It facilitates easy storage and retrieval of personnel records for administrative and pensions processing to aid manpower planning and budgeting as well as to comply with global best practices. The President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had directed the finance ministry to ensure that all employees of the Federal Government were enrolled on the IPPIS platform. The development had made the government to open a three-week window for the IPPIS enrolment between November 25 and December 7 across 43 universities. The Accountant-General of the Federation, Mr Ahmed Idris, had said out of the 94,990 university workers so far enrolled, about 8,146 were academic staff while the balance of 86,844 were non-academic staff. Branches of the Academic Staff Union of Universities in federal universities across the country had resisted the move stating that it was against universities autonomy. The union had threatened to mobilise its members for a nationwide strike if the Federal Government stopped the salaries of lecturers for resisting enrolment on the IPPIS platform. But the finance minister said her ministry would commence the stoppage of the salaries of all Federal Government’s employees not on the platform. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 