Friday Olokor, Abuja The leadership crisis rocking the Inter-Party Advisory Council worsened on Monday with the Labour Party rejecting the Interim Management Committee. The LP described the IMC as a product of illegality conceived by “few rascals pushing for selfish agenda.” While dissociating itself from what it described as “contraption”, the LP said its leaders were neither invited to any meeting, nor consulted before the establishment of the purported IMC. The National chairman of LP, Alhaji Abdulkadir Abdulsalam, gave the explanation during a press briefing in Abuja. LP was among the 18 parties which survived de-registration by the Independent National Electoral Commission. Abdulsalam told journalists that there was a duly elected executive of IPAC under the leadership of Chief Peter Ameh as the National President. He also advised “desperate young men,” to wait for the outcome of the case at the Federal High Court of competent jurisdiction on the matter. Abdulsalam said, “Shortly after the February 6 announcement by INEC, which affected some political parties, a group of political party chairmen announced themselves as the Interim Management Committee of IPAC. “I want to make it categorically clear that I was never invited to any meeting, neither was I consulted before the institution of this purported Interim Management Committee. “Such organ is alien to the Code of Conduct for the Inter-Party Advisory Council and a respected entity such as the Labour Party can never be party to such illegality. “I am also very much aware that at least nine (9) other political parties among the 18 were also not contacted. “I hereby call on these young men to retrace their steps and strive to work to ensure that the right things are done the right way and to work in unity in the development of our democracy.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com