Adelani Adepegba and Matthew Ochei Seven persons have been killed in separate road accidents at Gwagwalada, Abuja and Ogwashi-Uku, Delta State. A trailer heading towards Kwali in Abuja on Saturday lost control at Gwagwalada and crushed three persons to death. Seven others were also injured in the crash. The victims were rushed to the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital by men of the Federal Road Safety Corps. The incident triggered a violent protest by some youths who vandalised private and commercial vehicles. But the situation was brought under control by security agents who fired gunshots in the air to disperse the protesters. The Federal Road Safety Corps Public Education Officer, Commander Bisi Kazeem, confirmed the accident to Sunday Punch, noting that the crash occurred at Wazobia Park at 8.50am. He said, “The accident occurred at 8.50am when a trailer fully loaded with cows lost control on Gwagwalada Road while heading for Kwali. “Our officers arrived five minutes after the crash and immediately evacuated the injured victims to the hospital while the dead were moved to the mortuary. “Ten persons comprising eight males and two females were involved in the crash; two females and one male died while seven males who were injured were taken to the hospital for treatment.” In the Delta accident, a driver identified as Uche allegedly ran over four persons with his Toyota Camry car on Saturday after allegedly taking alcohol and substance suspected to be Indian hemp. Eyewitnesses said one of the victims, a grandmother in her sixties, died on the spot while three others passed on at hospitals. Injured victims are said to be in critical conditions. Sources said Uche was driving on top speed in the residential area when he rammed into the pedestrians. “The driver disappeared from the scene after the incident, abandoning the vehicle and the victims. Police came to the scene and searched the vehicle. They found a rap of Indian hemp inside the car,” an eyewitness stated. Another eyewitness said, “The victims had gone to clean a church in preparation for Sunday service and were returning home when the incident occurred.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, who confirmed the incident, said five persons were involved in the lone crash, adding that one person died on the spot. Meanwhile, the FRSC Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, has ordered a clampdown on overloaded school vehicles as part of measures to reduce crashes involving vehicles conveying school children. Oyeyemi disclosed this in a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, on Saturday. He directed sector commanders across the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory to impound any school bus conveying more than the required number of schoolchildren. He said, “This operation will be carried out in the morning and afternoon when schools close for the day.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  