Nike Popoola As insurance companies focus on raising capital, mergers and acquisitions as part of efforts to meet recapitalisation deadline this year, the development may lead to the emergence of fewer and stronger firms in the sector. The Managing Director, Excel Professional Services Limited, Dr Oladimeji Alo, said this during the 2020 business outlook seminar organised in Lagos by the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria. He spoke on ‘The Nigerian economy, 2020 issues, challenges and prospects for the insurance industry’. He said, “Fewer and stronger firms might emerge. Further consolidation of the sector could lead to better performance for some players.” Alo also said that better attention on the capital market and higher liquidity of the market could help the stocks of insurance companies listed on the market, and help them to raise the capital needed for their recapitalisation. In the current financial year, he said companies with attractive saving product might receive a major boost in that line of business. He also said that insurance companies that could reduce their cost of operations through innovations and digitalisation might compete better. According to him, government’s capital funding from the 2020 budget on major infrastructure projects could mean more business for some insurance companies. While mentioning the country’s debt expenditure for 2020, he said, “If properly expended on infrastructure projects as planned, the new debt could spur growth in the economy which could benefit the insurance sector. “As previously noted, some insurance companies could benefit directly from providing cover to activities around some of the major projects.” Improved performance of the insurance industry might make the sector more attractive to new investors, and improved fortune of the MSMES might mean more business for the sector. He said that some of the challenges confronting the sector included cultural beliefs and practices that did not support insurance and poor claim management experience of many policyholders in the past. Alo noted the low contribution of the sector to gross domestic product, which stood at 0.34 per cent as of 2019, and low level of insurance penetration that stood at 1.6 per cent in 2019. He said that a large number of the operators were fringe players. The speaker identified the weak capital base of many of the players, relative to the risk they underwrote, and inadequate skills in some critical areas as challenges. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 