Tobi Aworinde, Abuja The Buhari Media Organisation, has alleged that the Peoples Democratic Party showed its “love of hysteria and tragicomedy” by claiming that governance command structure had collapsed amid the outbreak of coronavirus in Nigeria. In a statement by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju, and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, on Thursday, the BMO said only “psychopaths” and “people afflicted with dementia” would get high on human misery like the top hierarchy of the PDP. The PDP had on Wednesday, alleged that the governance command structure of the Federal Government had collapsed since the isolation of Mallam Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd,), who tested positive for COVID-19. According to the BMO, though Kyari is in isolation, it is sheer mischief and ignorance to suggest that his quarantine affected “command structure at the Federal Executive Council.” The statement read in part, “Is it difficult for PDP’s henchmen to know that under the Buhari Presidency, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation is the clearing house for cabinet matters and not the office of the Chief of Staff? “Or is it a case of throwing decency and a little bit of humanity the party might still have to the dogs, in a bid to gloat over Mallam Kyari’s situation vis-à-vis his role as President Buhari’s key aide? “Only mischief-makers bent on making political capital out of everything would issue such a farcical statement when it is common knowledge that it is the SGF that treats memos from cabinet members and passes them on for discussion at FEC meetings.” The BMO added that only an “irresponsible group” would indulge in fake news by suggesting that some Presidency officials, as well as some state governors and other high-profile officials and individuals reportedly tested positive to the virus. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   