Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, reserved its ruling on the All Progressives Congress’ application for a review of its May 24, 2019 judgment, which nullified the party’s victories in the entire 2019 general elections held in Zamfara State. A five-man panel of the apex court led by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, said the date of the ruling would be communicated to the parties. The CJN made the announcement after parties to the case concluded their submissions on the application. On the panel with the CJN were Justices Olukayode Ariwoola, Inyang Okoro, Centus Nweze and Uwani Abba-Aji. The APC and ex-governor Abdulaziz Yari-led faction of the party asked for the review of the May 24, 2019 judgment, which nullified its victory in the 2019 general elections. In the disputed judgment, the Supreme Court declared that the APC failed to conduct valid primaries therefore it had no candidates in the elections. The apex court had declared the votes polled by the APC and its candidates in the elections as wasted. The Peoples Democratic Party and its candidates who polled the next highest number of votes in the elections were declared the winners and subsequently inaugurated. However, the Senator Kabiru Marafa-led faction of the Zamfara State chapter of the APC, opposed the application. APC’s lawyer, Chief Robert Clarke (SAN), on Tuesday, urged the court to set aside the consequential order in the said judgment directing that the candidates with the next highest votes be sworn in. Clarke, who said he agreed with the apex court’s finding that APC did not conduct valid primaries ahead of the 2019 general elections, urged the apex court to order the party to conduct fresh primaries and direct the Independent National Electoral Commission to conduct fresh elections. He argued that the case being a pre-election matter, the Supreme Court lacked the jurisdiction to issue an order determining who won or lost the various elections. Clarke said only the election petition or the superior courts sitting on an appeal arising from an election petition case could have made the orders contained in the May 24, 2019 judgment of the apex court. He added that the said judgment contravened the consistent precedents set by the apex court on issues like fair hearing and the principle of wasted votes in over 20,000 cases. Clarke said, “This court has no power to decide on election matters except if it comes through an appeal on election petition case. “In addition, the judgment of this court has made an outsider to benefit from intra-party dispute of the APC.” But the lawyer representing the Marafa faction, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), urged the apex court to dismiss the application for constituting “a gross abuse of court process.” He said the 60 days within which the constitution provided for the Supreme Court to deal with pre-election cases had since lapsed, while the applicant only filed their application for review of the judgment in the case 10 months after. Ozekhome maintained that the decisions of the apex court were final and no force on earth could change it, except an amendment to the law. He said, “We urge your lordships to dismiss the application with punitive, exemplary and aggravated cost. This application constitutes a gross abuse of the apex court of the land. “It is more so because of two recent decisions by this court, which I thought would have impelled the SAN to withdraw it.” INEC’s lawyer, Taminu Inuwa (SAN), neither supported nor opposed the application. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  