Bola Bamigbola and Chima Azubuike The Department of Petroleum Resources has said licence renewal for filling stations, gas plants and jetties will henceforth be based on proof that personnel in the stations have been subjected to safety training. The DPR’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr Sarki Auwalu, disclosed this at the 2020 Annual General Meeting organised by the DPR Osogbo Field Office for stakeholders in Osogbo, Osun State. Auwalu, who was represented by the DPR’s Head of Servicom, Mrs Margaret Osode, said the growth witnessed in the oil and gas sector had led to several unpleasant incidents, many of which had resulted in loss of lives, damage to property and environmental pollution. To further ensure safety in the sector, Auwalu said the DPR had launched the Minimum Industry Safety Training for Downstream Operations. He stated that all downstream workers must henceforth undergo the training at any DPR-approved and published safety training provider of their choice in accordance with their job roles and the likely hazards they would encounter at work. He said that beginning from January 1, 2021 renewal of licences by operators of jetties, filling stations, gas stations and tanker drivers, would be based on compliance with MISTDO-training for their personnel. Auwalu said, “In line with the MISTDO directives, no personnel (including petroleum tanker drivers and motor boys) shall be permitted to engage in downstream operations without MISTDO training at facilities located in Osun State beginning January 1, 2021 and renewal of licences by operators shall be based on compliance with MISTDO-training for their staff.” Speaking earlier, DPR’s Operations Controller for Osogbo Field Office, Olusegun Daboh, said some Liquefied Petroleum Gas and petrol stations in the state involved in sharp practices had been shut. In a related development, the DPR Gombe field Office has commenced on-the-spot assessment to monitor compliance by filling stations in the state with the new pump price of petrol. The Director, DPR Gombe Field Office, Mr Maishera Yahaya, who led his team to filling stations across the state to enforce compliance with the new pump price, briefed journalists on the outcome of the operation. He said, “We were informed by the Director of Petroleum Resources, Mr Auwalu Sarki, to enforce compliance, and immediately we swung into action by going round the outlets to ensure they complied. “Some of the stations complied immediately, especially major and the NNPC retail outlets. All the major stations visited complied. We used the opportunity to ensure safety measures were intact. We had to force the ones that defaulted to effect the new price. We monitored the process for hours.” Yahaya warned that any operator found flouting the directive would be adequately punished. He urged consumers in the state to report to the DPR any filling stations selling above the N125 per litre. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 