Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors has called for synergy and collaboration among professionals in the construction industry, particularly between quantity surveyors and engineers. NIQS President, Mohammed Abba Tor, canvassed proper synergy among professionals in the built environment when he led a delegation from the institute on a courtesy visit to the Nigerian Society of Engineers in Abuja. Abba Tor, who congratulated the new NSE President, Babagana Mohammed, and his team, said there was a need to leverage the platform created by the Construction Industry Development Initiative by organising a construction summit. The summit, according to him, will be jointly organised by the seven professional bodies in the built environment. He said, “Construction professionals in the built environment in Nigeria need to jointly advocate full participation of Nigerian professionals in policy formulation and implementation for the development of infrastructure in Nigeria. “There is a need for collaboration among professionals in the industry for enhanced service delivery and strategic alliance among professionals for multidisciplinary practices.” Abba Tor cited inadequate government patronage of Nigerian construction professionals, dominance of foreign companies in the industry and lack of involvement of Nigerian professionals in the development of infrastructure as some of the drawbacks of Nigeria’s landmark projects. He, however, noted that the NIQS was working on a blueprint for the summit that would address these issues. In his response, the NSE president thanked the NIQS team for the visit and assured the institute of the continued support and collaboration of engineers. Both presidents exchanged gifts to each other on behalf of their organisations, as they agreed to work together for the growth of Nigeria’s construction industry. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  