Johnson Okafor The founder, Investment Banking and Trust Company, Mr Atedo Peterside, has listed  macroeconomic stability, especially low inflation rate regime,  as a major panacea towards attracting all types of investors into the Nigerian capital market. Besides, Peterside who absolved stockbrokers of the blame for persistent selling pressure with diminution of share values on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, described as punitive, the increase in the minimum Loan to Deposit Ratio from 60 per cent to 65 per cent by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Speaking after he was conferred with Honourary Fellowship by the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers,  during the induction of 62 newly qualified stockbrokers into associate members in Lagos, Peterside explained that fear of devaluation of the naira in the wake of 12 per cent inflation rate with potential for further increase had elicited flight for safety, as local and foreign investors were taking short term bet on foreign currency as a hedging strategy. He urged the CBN to target a single-digit inflation rate of about five per cent for enhanced conducive investment environment, re-build investor confidence and help stockbrokers to overcome market burn out. “The problem of the capital market is not the fault of stockbrokers but that of macroeconomic stability framework. In Nigeria, the inflation rate is currently 12 per cent, compared to two per cent in the United States of America. The inflation rate in Nigeria provides incentives for devaluation of the Naira and many investors fear devaluation. “The fear of devaluation in itself is pushing many investors towards buying foreign currency as a short term bet to speculate exchange rate. The Central Bank of Nigeria has increased the Loan to Deposit Ratio which requires banks to make loan or stop collecting deposit. With the current low interest rate, the policy is punitive.  The CBN should bring inflation down to five per  cent to stabilize the economy,”  Peterside said. The apex bank had last year issued a statement to Deposit Money Banks that, “In order to sustain the momentum and in line with the provisions of our earlier letter, the minimum Loan to Deposit Ratio target for all Deposit Money Banks is hereby reviewed upwards from 60per cent  to 65 per cent. “All DMBs are required to attain a minimum LDR of 65 per cent by December 31, 2019.” According to the letter, the ratio will be subject to quarterly review, in order to encourage SMEs, retail, mortgage, and consumer lending. In his address, the President, CIS, Mr Adedapo Adekoje, explained that the institute’s board of fellows approved honourary fellowship for  Peterside in recognition of his intellectual and professional contributions to the growth and development of the capital market and economy as a whole. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 