Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja Customers of Deposit Money Banks on Monday made last-minute withdrawals at various bank branches in Abuja ahead of the restriction in movement placed by the Federal Government in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Our correspondent, who monitored the activities of some of the banks in Abuja, observed that many of them had a difficult time attending to their customers, who came in large numbers to make cash withdrawals. Some of the banks visited by our correspondent were United Bank for Africa (Wuse); First Bank of Nigeria Plc (Bwari); Zenith Bank Plc (Kubwa), First City Monument Bank (Bwari); and Stanbic IBTC (Kubwa). Others were Polaris Bank (Kubwa); Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (Area 3); and Ecobank (Kubwa). Some of the banks, in a bid to control the large turnout of customers, were forced to shut their banking halls intermittently. The development led to a large gathering at the entrance of the banking halls as well as the gate leading into the premises of the banks. Due to the large turnout of customers, some of the banks were forced to extend their closing time beyond the usual 4pm. Stanbic IBTC Bank, for instance, in a notice to customers on Monday fixed the closing time for all banking transactions at 5pm. The notice reads, “Following the announcement of the Federal Government of Nigeria restricting movement in FCT, Lagos, and Ogun States, please be informed that all our available branches in these states will be open for extended hours from 8am to 5pm on Monday 30 March 2020. “All branches in these locations (FCT, Lagos and Ogun States) will however be closed to customers from Tuesday 31 March 2020 to observe the 14-day lockdown as directed by the Federal Government.” The rush from customers, it was learnt, became imperative to enable them meet up with their financial obligations before the lockdown on Tuesday. While most of the customers were seen making huge withdrawals that would sustain them till after the lockdown, others were seen transferring money through various banking channels. Even some of the ATMs mounted at some of the bank premises came under pressure from customers as some of them had to be constantly refilled with cash to meet up with the huge demand for cash. As a result of the large number of people using the ATMs, the development led to disruptions in financial transactions arising from network congestions. A bank customer who gave her name as Victoria Ezekiel told our correspondent that she needed to make the withdrawals to enable her get food items. She, however, added that if the two-week period of lockdown was extended, it would be difficult to survive due to shortage of cash. She said, “Tomorrow is lockdown and in my office, we are asked to close at 12pm today to enable us go home and prepare for the restrictions in movement. “I have been on this queue for over one hour now to make withdrawals and as you can see, it’s not been easy because of the fact that some of the ATMs are not even dispensing cash and the poor network is not making it possible for some of the ATM cards to work on another ATM machine.” Another customer who simply gave his name as Phillips said banks should have been exempted from the lockdown due to the financial intermediation role they play in the economy. “Whatever the situation, there is need to get the cash to enable one have something at home because there is restriction of movement and we don’t know what will happen during the two-week period. “While no one is praying for the health crisis to get worse, the lockdown may be extended and when this happens, no one will be able to go and make another withdrawal. “So, it’s better to play safe by having enough than being caught unawares.” Similar situations were also witnessed in Lagos in Ogun states as some banks provided canopies for their teeming customers. Polaris Bank branch at Omole Phase II area of Lagos did not open its office to customers, while most customers who went to withdraw money at the ATMs in front of the bank were disappointed as there was no cash in them. One employee of the bank who spoke anonymously said, “Most of our branches did not open today. Most of those that opened closed by 1pm.” Customers at the GTB in the same area were seen on long queues. The security personnel allowed only 10 customers to enter at a time. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 