Nike Popoola The operators of the Contributory Pension Scheme have sought the support of the lawmakers to ensure that employers who are not remitting their workers’ pensions into their Retirement Savings Accounts with their Pension Fund Administrators, and those who are remitting below the stipulated amount face the consequences of their default. They also want the employers who are fully compliant to be encouraged through incentives. The operators said this during a seminar by the Pension Funds Operators Association of Nigerian for lawmakers in the country. According to the Pension Reform Act 2014, employers are required to deduct eight per cent of workers monthly emoluments and add 10 per cent to be contributed in the workers’ RSAs. A former Director-General, National Pension Commission, Mr Muhammad Ahmad, said, “Essentially, we need to ensure compliance – both in respect of payments for those who do not pay at all and for the correct percentage to be paid by those who still use the previous rate. “In addition, we need to stipulate consequences for non- compliance and look for ways to incentivise those that are compliant. “Again, this is where you senators and representatives will play a significant role in ensuring that effective legislations are made to identify the challenges. The President, PenOp, Mrs Aderonke Adedeji, said, pensions affected all groups of people. “Those who are employed either by the private or public sector will give their best during their active years, knowing that they have a pension to fall back on in their retirement years,” she said. For the self-employed and informal workers, she explained, the pension savings were probably their only savings vehicle, helping to instil the discipline of Iong-term savings. For the retired, she added, it provided succour and dignity in their twilight years. For the unemployed, the investments by the pension industry enabled the economy to grow and create jobs in the process, she said. Adedeji said, “So, it is evident that a welI-functioning, transparent and efficient pension system is critical for all groups of Nigerians and our  nation at large. A well-functioning pension industry will reduce the menace of corruption, because individuals will be assured that they have funds they can fall back on during their retirement years. “May I remind us that for the first time in Nigeria’s history, we have a national pension scheme that works. Retirees get paid on a monthly basis, no stories. For those who participated in the CPS and later lost their jobs, they are able to access up to 25 per cent of the funds pending when they find a new job.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    