Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A 23-year-old secondary school teacher, Azunyere Chima, has been arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command for allegedly having unlawful carnal knowledge of his 14-year-old pupil. The suspect, an Arts teacher, reportedly deceived the pupil on the pretext of assisting her with the practical work. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Oyeyemi explained that the suspect allegedly dragged the victim to his room and forcefully had sex with her. The PPRO added that the action of the suspect caused the victim to bleed heavily. He said, “On March 22, 2020, Azunyere Chima was arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command for forcefully having carnal knowledge of his 14-year-old pupil. “The 23-year-old randy teacher was apprehended following a report by the father of the victim, who reported at the Ibafo Divisional Police Headquarters that his daughter was lured to the house of the suspect, who happened to be her Arts teacher, under the pretext that he wanted to help her with the practical work. “But on getting to his house, the suspect dragged her into his room, overpowered her and forcefully had sex with her as a result of which the victim bled heavily from her private parts. “Upon the report, the DPO, Ibafo, SP Abiodun Ayinde, detailed his detectives to the residence of the suspect at No. 2 Unity Close, Aseese, where he was promptly arrested. “He has since made a confessional statement to the police, while the victim has been taken to hospital for treatment.” Oyeyemi explained that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Kenneth Ebrimson, had directed that the suspect be transferred to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for proper investigation and prosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 