Ted Odogwu, Kano The Kano  State  House of Assembly on Wednesday set up an eight-man panel headed by the Deputy Speaker Hamisu Chidere to investigate fresh allegations that the Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II abused his office. According to the Chairman of the House Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Hamza Massu, this followed  two petitions  submitted to the Assembly by  the Kano State Society for Promotion of Education and Culture  and one Alhaji Mohamed Jaen demanding the emir’s deposition. The petitioners, who accused the monarch  of violating the cultural values of the Fulani  dynasty, added that they had video clips to back up their allegations. They  also accused the vocal ex-governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria  of conducting himself in such a manner  unbecoming an emir. The probe  panel was given one week to investigate the allegations and submit their report to the Speaker, Abdulazeez  Gafasa, for further deliberations. All efforts made by our correspondent to reach  Sanusi  and the Kano Emirate Council for comments were not successful as of the time of filing this report. The emir has found himself locked in a fierce fight with the Umar   Ganduje government over his stance on issues concerning the running of the state. READ ALSO: Three injured in fresh Kano gun attack The  ruling All Progressives Congress government in the state  accused him of  supporting the Peoples Democratic Party, and last year the state government  created four new emirates – Bichi, Gaya, Karaye and Rano –  from  the Kano Emirate, a  development seen by the emir’s sympathisers as a move to reduce his influence. The Kano Emirate Council under Sanusi’s  watch  has  been under investigations by the  Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission   for allegedly  misappropriating  over N3.4bn. A Kano Magistrates’ Court recently restrained the  commission from investigating the emir. Furthermore, Sanusi filed a suit  against the state government, praying the court to restrain them from linking him to the alleged fraud. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 