Rasheed Bisiriyu A special edition of the F-Pace sport utility vehicle, coming as Chequered Flag, has been introduced to Africa and there are indications that the new vehicle will land in Nigeria soon. The premium automaker says the award-winning F-Pace SUV now comes as a feature-packed Chequered Flag special edition in sub-Saharan Africa. Exterior According to a statement from the firm, obtained via email, the F‑Pace Chequered Flag offers assertive exterior styling, distinctive badge and a choice of engines, taking inspiration from Jaguar’s racing heritage. Its exterior styling shows a Sport front bumper and striking Gloss Black detailing on the front grille, door cladding, side vents, and roof rails. Its wheels are 19-inch five split-spokes, also finished in gloss black. Interior It comes with 10-way electric seats with driver memory, Touch Pro Navigation and Meridian Sound System as standard equipment. Its cabin is said to blend luxurious materials and specially crafted finishes, with features including perforated leather seat upholstery, meshed aluminium detailing and unique Chequered Flag tread plates. It says its “occupants (will) benefit from a range of standard features such as 10-way electric front seats with driver memory, Apple CarPlay, Touch Pro Navigation Pack, Meridian Sound System, reconfigurable 12.3-inch Interactive Driver Display and the Touch Pro infotainment system.” Engine performance It says a range of 2.0-litre AWD powertrains are available with the Chequered Flag, beginning with a performance-focused 184kW 2.0-litre Ingenium petrol. This is said to power the F-Pace from 0-100km/h in 7.0 seconds and to a top speed of 217km/h. The vehicle also has two-litre diesel options, offering either 132kW or 177kW, with all-wheel drive. It says the 132kW version accelerates to 100km/h in nine seconds and reaches a top speed of 208km/h, while the 177kW does the same in 7.2 seconds and 217km/h. According to the auto firm, every F-Pace features a lightweight aluminium intensive construction and driving dynamics that deliver the ideal balance between ride and handling. Its all-Surface Progress Control ensures smooth traction on low-grip surfaces, while on-demand all-wheel drive and Intelligent Driveline Dynamics deliver optimum performance and capability. Its high torsional stiffness enables its F-Type-derived double wishbone front- and Integral Link rear suspension to deliver a truly rewarding driving experience. Its torque vectoring and an electric power-assisted steering system, said to be standard, further enhance agility and response. “The Jaguar F-PACE achieved double success at the 2017 World Car Awards, scooping the prestigious World Car of Year and World Car Design of the Year titles,” the firm says. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    