Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The police in the Federal Capital Territory, on Tuesday, arraigned three students of the University of Abuja for allegedly forging their National Examinations Council certificates to gain admission into the institution. The students, Theresa Effiong, Solomon Victor and Abdulkabir Mohammad, were arraigned before the FCT Magistrates’ Court, Wuse Zone 2, Abuja. They pleaded not guilty to the one count of forgery preferred against them and were granted bail in the sum of N200,000 each, with one surety in like sum. The magistrate, Idayat Olaide, said the surety must not be lower than a grade Level 8 civil servant and must also be a resident within the jurisdiction of the court. According to the First Information Report read by the clerk of the court to the suspects, the alleged offence is in breach of Section 364 of the Penal Code. It stated, “Forgery is contrary to Section 364 of Penal Code. On the October, 18, 2019, the Registrar of the University of Abuja laid a complaint before the Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 7 Headquarters, Abuja, for investigation. “It revealed that you, Theresa Effiong, with June 2017 NECO certificate number 501569013, Solomon Victor with June 2017 NECO number 10506512111 and Abdulkabir Mohammad with June 2012 NECO number 105016543; that these certificates upon which you gained admission or sought admission into the University of Abuja are forged certificates. READ ALSO: Gunmen raid Kano community, kill two, injure four “You are thereby suspected to have committed the above offence.” The court was also told that a fourth suspect, Adama Yakubu, who allegedly committed the same offence, could not make it to the court for arraignment. In a chat with newsmen after the court sitting, the police prosecutor, Mr Chijoke Okezie, expressed his readiness to ensure that the case was well prosecuted. “They have been arraigned for the offence of forgery and the matter has been mentioned and the adjournment taken. One of the suspects is absent and efforts are on to get her. We are going to look for her,” he said. The case was adjourned till April 23, 2020, for the commencement of trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 