About a month ago, bandits suspected to be cattle rustlers attacked Bangi community in the Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State, killing a 52-year-old police inspector, Mitra Ibrahim. His wife, Zuwaira, 48, tells ENYIOHA OPARA how the death of her husband has thrown the family into hopeless predicament When was the last time you saw your husband alive? I saw him few days before he died, that was before he travelled to Bangi in the Mariga Local Government Area of the state where he was newly posted to work. What was the last conversation you had with him? When he was leaving Minna for his new place of work (Bangi), we spoke at length. We talked about how to move the family forward and other family issues. When he was leaving the house, I jokingly told him not go after Bangi women and we laughed it off. On a serious note, I told him to remember the family he left behind and be careful. I told him to focus on the job that took him to Bangi and that the kids and I would continuously pray to God for his protection throughout his stay in his new division. That was it; he travelled to Bangi and bid farewell to all of us. How did you hear about his death? I was at home when I got a call from one of his colleagues asking if I was in the house, I said yes and quickly asked if everything was fine. Then he told me they were on their way. Within 10 minutes, four policemen came to our house and I began to wonder what was amiss.  Before I knew what was going on, one of them broke the news of my husband’s death to me and I fainted. I could not regain my composure. He told me that bandits killed my husband during a shoot-out that lasted hours. As the news was being broken to me, it felt like I did not hear him well and I quickly told him to stop joking with me but he made me realise it was nothing but the truth. Even as I am talking to you now, it feels like a fairy tale. When it dawned on me that my husband had gone, I cried uncontrollable because he was everything to me. Honestly, life is not fair to me. What happened after the news was broken to you? It felt like my life and those of my five daughters had ended. As I am here, I don’t know where to start and where to go from here. We began to think that whether we had sinned or what went wrong with our destinies. Why should it happen at this time? Why is it that Mitra (my husband) will not be able to train his girls that he cherished most? This is a wicked world. My greatest problem now is that I am a housewife; I don’t know how to cope with my five girls. This is a heavy burden and I don’t know where to start. When the news of my husband’s death was broken to me, the first question that came to my mind was how would I cope without him, what would happen to his girls’ education and other family issues? At that time, I could not think of what to do. But I found solace in God, the giver and the taker. We cannot question Him because He must have a reason for that and there is nothing anybody can do about it; it boils down to the fact that God’s decision is irrevocable. Have the police authority reached out to your family after that? Yes, they have reached out to us and given us some money. In fact, they did well by consoling us to bear the irreparable loss and since then, our house has been a mecca for our loved ones who have been coming every other day. I never knew my husband was popular until his death; virtually all the policemen and policewomen in Minna metropolis have come to our compound to commiserate with us, especially the ones in Tundu Wada Division. They have been of great assistance to the family. What steps have the police taken to fish out the bandits that killed your husband? They are on top of the situation; I know God will expose my husband’s killers very soon. Actually, the police are on the trail of the bandits who made me a widow unexpectedly; they will never go scot-free. They must surely meet their Waterloo. How have you and your children been coping since the incident? I am empty; the situation is extremely difficult to cope with. I am completely devastated; I don’t know where to start. At times, I ask myself ‘how am I ever going to cope without my husband’. As am talking to you now, I still don’t believe that he is dead. My husband’s death has shattered my hope and aspirations. Honestly, my five children and I need assistance, especially from government and the Police Force so that I will able to fund their education because I have nothing. My husband provided everything we needed in the house. I am appealing to the authorities concerned to help me and my children and save us from hardship. Our lives can never be the same again. Please, help us; every kindness helps, no matter how little. The five girls are all in school and I cannot do it alone. What plans did you have with your late husband? Life is what happens to you while you are busy making other plans. Our plan was to give our children the best education and give them the best in life but death snatched him away from my hand. (Sobbing) I don’t think that life is fair to me, by all standards and ramifications. One of our major plans was to complete the construction of our house this year, so now that he is gone, who will do that for us? It’s unfortunate. How long did he work at Tundu Wada Division in Minna before he was transferred to Bangi in the Mariga Local Government Area of the state? He worked at Tundu Wada, Minna for 20 years. During his time there, he distinguished himself and carried out his duties in a dignified manner and that endeared him to every divisional police officer he worked with. He never had issues with them. Recently, he was posted to Bangi so that he could replicate his good works there but the bandits did not allow him to settle down before killing him. What will you miss about him? I will continue to miss him till the end of my life because he was everything to me. In fact, I will miss everything about him. My husband was a caring man; all through the time we spent together, I never lacked anything. He always provided for the family. His family always came first. He ensured I had whatever I wanted. Any time I blew my top (become extremely angry), he would tell me to calm down and immediately proffer a solution. Anywhere you mention my husband’s name, you will hear good comments about him from people; he was very popular and an easy-going human being. My husband was kind to a fault; he never said ‘no’ to any problem, he would always find a way to resolve it. He was always willing to help others. I don’t know how to cope without him; he was doing virtually everything for me so I will miss him a lot. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  