Leke Baiyewu The House of Representatives has begun a fresh move to regulate the registration and activities of non-governmental organisations and civil society groups. A similar bill sponsored by the then Deputy Leader of the House, Mr Buba Jibril, under the 8th House, was greeted with criticisms and condemnations. The bill had sought to regulate NGOs, including making provisions for their registration, funding and the use of foreign consultants by certain aid donors and organisations providing humanitarian services in the country. The House Committee on Civil Societies and Development Partners had conducted a public hearing on the controversial ‘Non-Governmental Organisation Regulatory Commission of Nigeria (Establishment) Bill’ on December 13, 2017. Chairman of the committee, Mr Peter Akpatason, now the Deputy Majority Leader, whose committee conducted the hearing, had argued that a few individuals, who were pursuing personal interests “deliberately tried to pass the wrong information to Nigerians about the bill.” Akpatason had said, “The campaign, it is all lies. They also tried to whip up religious sentiments by talking about churches and mosques. It is part of the lies because the bill clearly states that religious bodies are excluded. The talk about Esusu is also another big lie.” This time, another member of the House, Mr Tajudeen Abbas, has sponsored a similar bill with a different title. The new proposal, which is billed for second reading, is called, ‘A bill for an act to establish the civil society regulatory commission and for connected purposes.’ The short title reads, ‘A Bill for an Act to Establish Civil Societies Regulatory Commission for Coordinated Regulation of Civil Society Organisations for the Purposes of Strengthening their Capacity to Promote Democracy and Development in the Country; and for Related Matters.’ The bill had been listed for second reading on Wednesday but was stood down due to the absence of the sponsor. According to the bill, a copy of which our correspondent obtained on Thursday,  among the “general functions” of the proposed commission include determining whether institutions are or are not civil societies and encouraging and facilitating better administration of civil societies and giving such advice or guidance with respect to the administration of civil societies as it considers appropriate. The functions also include, “Identifying and investigating apparent misconduct or mismanagement in the administration of civil societies and taking remedial or protective action in connection with misconduct or mismanagement in the administration of any civil society; “Determining whether public collections certificates should be issued to any civil society, and remain in force, in respect of public charitable collections and maintaining an accurate and up-to-date register of civil societies. Also, “The commission may give a direction requiring the name of a civil society to be changed, within such period as is specified in the direction, to such other name as the civil society ‘constitutionees’ may determine with the approval of the commission.” The bill read in part, “The commission may from time to time institute inquiries with regard to civil societies or a particular civil society or class of civil societies, either generally or for particular purposes. The commission may conduct such an inquiry itself, or appoint a person to conduct it and make a report to the commission. “If the name of any civil society is changed by virtue of Section 16 of this bill, the civil society ‘constitutionees’ must without delay notify the commission of the civil society’s new name and the date on which the change occurred.  A change of name by a civil society by virtue of Section 16 of this bill does not affect any rights or obligations of the civil society.” When conducting an enquiry into the activities of an NGO or CSO, the commission would obtain a warrant, while the bill stated that “it is an offence for a person to intentionally obstruct the exercise of any rights conferred by a warrant.” A person guilty of the offence would be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a fine not exceeding N400,000 or both. Where an inquiry has been held by the commission, it would have the powers to print and publish the report. Section 25 of the bill read, “(1) The commission may by regulations require the payment to the commission of such fees as may be prescribed by the regulations in respect of (a) the discharge by the commission of such functions under the enactments relating to civil societies as may be so prescribed and (b) The inspection of the register of civil societies or of other material kept by the commission under those enactments or the provision of copies of or extracts from documents so kept. “(2) Regulations under this section may (a) confer, or provide for the conferring of exemptions from liability to pay a prescribed fee; and (b) provide for the remission or refunding of a prescribed fee (in whole or in part) in circumstances prescribed by the regulations. “(3) The commission may impose charges of such amounts as it considers reasonable in respect of the supply of any publications produced by it. “(4) Any fees and other payments received by the commission by virtue of this section are to be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  