Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, on Sunday, assured traders in the state that they would be given the right of first refusal to own shops when the new markets were completed. The assurance became imperative following the controversies that had so far surrounded the demolished markets in the state. The demolished markets include Kasuwar Barci in Tudun Wada area of the Kaduna South Local Government Area; Kasuwan Magani in the Kajuru LGA; the Kawo market in Kaduna North as well as the Sabon Gari market in Zaria. In the current urban renewal projects in the state, the demolished markets would all be built and fitted with modern facilities. The projects are being  handled by  the Kaduna Markets Development and Management Company through the Public Private Partnership initiative. Some traders had confronted the state openly over the demolished markets, saying  their sources of livelihood were being destroyed without a fallback plan. However, the governor, who was responding to a caller on the State Radio on Friday night, allayed the fears of traders and shop owners at the various markets in the state. El-Rufai said no trader or shop owner would be shortchanged in the redistribution of the shops. According to him, data of all shop owners is being captured and as such, there is no need to panic. El-Rufai, however, said though the market belonged to the government, the fact that the original allotees had sub-leased or even sold the shops to third parties did not make the beneficiaries the owners of those shops. He said the government had entered into a mortgage arrangement with some banks whereby they would give the traders money to purchase the shops. He said the banks would hold onto the Certificates of Occupancies until their mortgages were liquidated. “The principle is that instead of paying monthly rents, the shop owners will now pay these monies to the bank in order to offset the mortgage,” he said. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  