’Femi Asu the Chief Executive Officer, MOJEC International Limited, Chantelle Abdul, has said the company is committed to help in reducing the aggregate technical, commercial and collection losses in the nation’s power sector. Abdul noted that high ATC&C losses had been one of the many challenges facing operators over the years, partly due to the huge metering gap in the Nigerian electricity supply industry. According to the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, the customer population has grown from five million in 2012 to over 10 million as of December 2019 with about 52 per cent of the population being invoiced on the basis of estimated billing. On March 8, 2018, NERC approved the Meter Asset Provider Regulation, aimed at fast-tracking the closure of the metering gap in the sector through the engagement of third-party investors for the financing, procurement, supply, installation and maintenance of electricity meters. The commission, which set a target of metering all customers within three years, directed the power distribution companies and the meter asset providers to commence the roll-out of meters not later than May 1, 2019. Abdul said at a press briefing in Lagos that effective metering represented the foundation for sustainable revenue generation and the commercial viability of the sector. She said, “MOJEC has been providing meter for electricity consumers in Nigeria since the ’80s, and we birthed the idea to begin manufacturing meters in Nigeria. After the privatisation of the power sector, we were one of the first companies to introduce remote meter reading as far back as 2014. “This was our approach to solving meter reading problem, which was a stumbling block for utility companies then. Today, not only are we the biggest meter manufacturing company and we are working to triple our production capacity, we have also created over 5,000 jobs across the country for installers.” According to her, the company has over 80 per cent market penetration rate in the Nigerian electricity market with eight out of 11 of the utilities as its clients. Abdul said, “Our commitment to Nigeria’s power sector is beyond profit-making. We believe that solving the power problem is a major puzzle in solving our socio-economic problems. Smart meter is the Point of Sale machine of the power sector and we are committed to reducing the ATC&C losses. We have introduced, the mobile MAP to help close the metering gap as soon as possible. “With ambitious future plans for growth, we aim to further entrench our leadership in the Nigerian power sector through research and development, training in human capital and investment in infrastructure, our people, products and processes.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  