Keystone Bank said it will donate N1bn for the purchase of relief materials, critical care facilities and protective gear to curtail the spread of coronavirus virus. The pledge was made during the Bankers’ Committee meeting which held recently, to support the Central Bank of Nigeria in its bid to raise funds for the fight against coronavirus pandemic through the newly-formed Nigerian Private Sector Coalition Committee. In a statement, the acting Managing Director, Mr Olaniran Olayinka, explained that the decision to make the pledge was part of the bank’s corporate social responsibility pillars to provide an enabling environment by improving the well-being and health of the communities wherein the company operated. “What we have is a situation that calls for an inclusive support for humanity. A time that all hands must be on deck to support the assiduous effort the government is making to manage the situation. “The decision to support the government’s effort is consistent with our unshakable resolve to promote health initiatives which is a very key pillar in our corporate social responsibility plans. “It is also crucial in our role as a signatory to the principles of responsible banking by the United Nations Environment Finance Initiative working to achieve a sustainable future. “At Keystone Bank, we remain firmly committed to our promise of supporting Nigerians to thrive and this means for us showing up when it matters most. For us, this is one of such moments.” Olayinka expressed optimism that the current pandemic would soon be a thing of the past. He added, “I am very confident that the current prevailing health challenge will soon be an episode in the footnote of our history; we have  capable human resources, the will on the part of the government and the support of every Nigerian to end the pandemic at the earliest possible time.” Olayinka noted that the donation was one of the initiatives put in place by the bank to support the fight against the pandemic. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  