Tobi Aworinde, Abuja The Director General of Voice of Nigeria, Mr Osita Okechukwu, has advocated an economy more focused on agriculture and less dependent on crude oil. Okechukwu, in a statement in Abuja, on Monday, said, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had devoted more energy and resources to promoting modern agriculture than any of his predecessors since 1970. While congratulating the first female Chairperson, Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria, Hajia Sa’a Ibrahim, on her election, the VON boss said broadcasters should give prominence to the agricultural programmes of the Buhari administration amid the international oil price slump. The international oil benchmark, Brent crude, which had stood at $45.72 per barrel, slumped to $33 per barrel earlier this month amid the coronavirus pandemic. Okechukwu said, “Permit me to appeal that, in crisis time as we have today, we, broadcasters, should, as a matter of urgent national importance, publicise the ongoing agricultural revolution, which one christened Buhari’s Agrarian Revolution; one dubbed it a revolution because it is a policy designed to contain global crisis like the COVID-19. “Mr President, as a former oil minister, has carefully, over the years, watched the vagaries of international oil price, which cannot be relied upon and reasoned that the best option is to diversify our economy by investing heavily in modern agricultural techniques. “For the avoidance of doubt, post-1970, no President has ever devoted energy and invested as much as President Buhari did.” According to him, though there are challenges confronting BUGREV, including herdsmen/farmers clashes, information is needed for the youths to buy into BUGREV and to constantly remind government of the need to curb herdsmen/farmers clashes. Okechukwu added, “As a matter of fact, the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, mandates us as the Fourth Estate of the realm to criticise bad government policies and project good government policies. “This is one good policy we should market for the collective good of all. Consequently, BUGREV is an antidote to our over-dependence on mono-oil-economy and gross unemployment.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  