Success Nwogu, Abuja The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons says it has rescued two female Nigerians trafficked to Beirut, Lebanon. The NAPTIP Press Officer, Mr Vincent Adekoye, in a statement on Sunday, also said the agency arrested a Lebanese for allegedly aiding the trafficking of the victims. He explained that the victims were rescued from their task masters and brought back to Nigeria within 72 hours after information about them was brought to the attention of the Director-General of the agency, Julie Okah-Donli. Adekoye quoted the Lagos Zonal Commander of NAPTIP, Mr Daniel Atokolo, who coordinated the rescue operation, as saying, “The agency received a distress call concerning two Nigerian girls. The first victim, who hails from Oyo State, is an NCE holder and was trafficked to Beirut in September 2019, while the second victim, who hails from Ebonyi State, was a sales girl in Lagos before she was deceived and trafficked to Beirut in September 2019. “Both victims travelled by air as their visas and other travel documents were procured by the suspect. “Upon the receipt of the information, the NAPTIP director-general gave a directive that both of them must be rescued immediately. With the support of our partners in Lebanon and the members of staff of the Nigerian Embassy in Beirut, they were rescued within 24 hours and we are happy that they are in Nigeria at the moment. “The agency also arrested a Lebanese in connection with the incident, while another suspect, David, believed to have played a major role in the recruitment of the victims, is now at large. “Both victims are presently undergoing counselling, while the agency has commenced a manhunt for the suspect, who is at large.” Adekoye also quoted Okah-Donli as saying that the Federal Government had demonstrated serious commitment to the eradication of human trafficking in the country through NAPTIP, thereby meeting the minimum global standard of compliance. She called on parents to desist from mounting pressure on their children and wards and forcing them to travel abroad without any skill, adding that rather, they should re-direct their attention to the abounding potential in the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 