Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other investment stakeholders are seeking diverse ways of exploring investment opportunities into the global Halal economy currently put at $3tn. The President, ACCI, Adetokunbo Kayode, said this  at a pre-event briefing on the forthcoming Halal Expo Nigeria 2020. He said Nigeria could not continue to lag behind in the global Halal economy, noting that there were lots of products and partnerships that could stimulate investment for economic growth in the country. He said the chamber was willing to support stakeholders and investors who were willing to explore opportunities in the Halal economy for weatlh creation. The ACCI boss explained that this informed the forthcoming Halal expo. Kayode stated that Nigeria stood a better chance of exploring  opportunities in the Halal economy which spreads across pharmaceuticals, food industry, finance and other areas of economy. He said, “We are 200 million people and we need to expand our doors and explore global opportunities. “For instance,Halal beef is exported globally and it is healthy unlike most often what we get here when people carry meat in Keke and in their shoulders which is unhealthy.” He said that the initiative and the Halal expo would ensure financial intermediation for many Nigerians since they offered opportunity through a non- interest free financial management and risk partnership. “If we get this right through the National Livestock master plan, there is no responsibility while we should be importing cattle from Chad, Niger and Burkina Faso. “This is one out of many opportunities that Halal provides for investors since we are even having increase demands for goat meat from our African neighbours. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 