Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The Federal Government has banned all government officials, including public and civil servants, from travelling abroad. The Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 announced the decision after a closed-door meeting in Abuja on Tuesday. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the committee, Boss Mustapha, while briefing journalists, said the ban took immediate effect and affected all trips earlier approved. He said, “After due consideration and the trend of the spread of the novel Coronavirus, and subsequent declaration of the outbreak as a pandemic by the World Health Organisation, the committee has decided that we upscale our health emergency system to the highest level and put a measure to curb further spread. “So far, we have had three cases; two positive and one negative. We want to make sure it does not spread beyond this minor figure. “On the part of government, it has become necessary to advise all public officials in the Ministries, Department and Agencies, including parastatals, that government has banned all forms of travelling out of the country, for whatever reasons. “Whether for meetings; bilateral or multilateral conferences, seminars, workshops, presentations, negotiations and other forms of ceremonies, this ban will remain in force until the situation of coronavirus abates.” The committee advised Nigerians to cancel or postpone all non-essential travels, including business and vacation trips. Mustapha said, “This is especially so, when it comes to travelling to countries known to be seriously affected by the Covid-19. “Such high-risk countries are China, Iran, South Korea, Germany, Italy, United States, United Kingdom, Switzerland, Norway, Netherlands, Spain, France and Japan.” The committee urged those returning to Nigeria from foreign countries to isolate themselves for 14 days in their homes. It, however, said those returning from high-burdened countries would be actively followed up for 14 days by the health authorities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 