Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa Heineken Lokpobiri and Preye Aganaba top the list of the 14 All Progressives Congress leaders suspended by the party in Bayelsa State for alleged anti-party activities on Friday. Ex-Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development Lokpobiri and Aganaba  both took part in the September 4, 2019  governorship election in the state. Others are Warman Ogoriba, Orubebe Ogeibiri, C.T. Olorogun, Pius Otia,  Osomkime Blankson, Samuel Aredeh, Ebierien Itubo, Peres Peretu, Sunday Frank-Oputu, Azikiwe Amasigha and Fortune Panebi. Lokpobiri and Aganaba  challenged the outcome of  the primary that  produced  David Lyon as the  candidate of the APC for the polls in court. But the court ruled against them, affirming Lyon as the authentic candidate of the party  for the November 16, 2019  governorship election. Lyon progressed to win the election. But the  Supreme Court  stopped him on the eve of his  inauguration  as governor  because the deputy governor-elect Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo submitted forged  certificates to the Independent National Electoral Commission. Douye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party, who came second in the election, became governor. In a statement, spokesman for  the  APC in the state, Doifie Buokoribo, said their suspension followed  the report of the  disciplinary committee  set up  on July 31, 2019 to probe allegations of anti-party activities levelled against them. Buokoribo said the panel was constituted in accordance with Article 21, Sub-section B and D of the APC constitution, 2014 (as amended). He said, “The State Executive Committee of the party objectively looked into the several allegations of anti-party activities levelled against them that ran contrary to the provisions of  the APC constitution, morally and good conscience, which brought about great electoral misfortune. “The action is to send signal to deviants masquerading in the party, especially those working against its collective interest and aspirations.” Lokpobiri, Ogoriba and Frank-Oputu could not be reached for comments  as they did not answer calls placed to their mobiles. Aganaba, however, told Saturday PUNCH that his media aide would issue a statement but he had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 