Nigeria, with over 200 million citizens, is a mobile first country as communications are carried out by about 184.4 million subscribers to telecommunication services on mobile devices. One of the driving forces of mobile penetration in Nigeria is the availability and affordability of mobile devices in the country. A Nigeria Mobile Report by Jumia stated that the average price of smartphones declined by 19 per cent to $95 from 2016 to 2018, a trend that is largely driven by entry of lower price point phones from China into the market. Nigeria’s mobile phone Internet user penetration stood at 27.9 per cent based on estimates provided by Statista. To support the increasing demand for Internet services, the first National Broadband Plan (2013 – 2018) hinged on the ways to ensure that Nigerians irrespective of their locations have unfettered access to broadband infrastructure. To this effect the Nigeria communications Commission have made plans and developed frameworks to ensure that broadband infrastructure is available across the country. While plans have been ongoing for more than seven years to provide the necessary infrastructure to bring Internet connectivity to the last mile, no implementation has taken place. As of 2018, a total of six infrastructural companies were licensed by the NCC, one in each geopolitical zone, as part of its strategy to enhance broadband penetration in the country. However, the last infraco for the North Central region has not been named yet. MainOne, got the approval in 2017 to deploy infrastructure across Lagos State and had already announced plans to invest N25bn to deploy 2,000 kilometres of fibre optic cable that would connect all the local government areas, in three years. Raeana Nigeria Limited received the licence for South South zone, O’dua Infraco Resources Limited for the South-West region, Fleeks Network Limited for the North West, Brinks Integrated Solutions for the North West and Zinox Technologies for the South East Zone. The Infraco model will ensure that the companies deploy their infrastructure for a five-year period and provide wholesale services to others to ensure that the last-mile connectivity is achieved and people in rural and under-served communities are reached with Internet services. Highlighting the importance of the broadband infrastructure at an industry event recently, the Executive Vice- Chairman, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said that the infracos had the mandate to deploy metro and intercity fibre and broadband point of access with a minimum capacity of 10 gigabyte per second across the 774 Local Government Areas of Nigeria. “With the development of Smart Cities Key Performance Indicators by the ITU, it is imperative to have a pervasive and ubiquitous broadband infrastructure across all our towns and cities to achieve the objectives of making them smart,” Danbatta said. He pledged the commitment of the NCC to ensuring that all citizens of Nigeria had access to affordable broadband connection irrespective of location. This assurance, according to Danbatta, was based on the digital transformation agenda of the Federal Government anchored on availability, accessibility and affordability of broadband. To ensure expeditious action on the broadband penetration across the states of Nigeria, Danbatta added, “We have put in place Broadband Implementation Committee to monitor full implementation of the Infraco Projects within the four-year implementation plan.” Meanwhile, the project, which has a Public Private Partnership arrangement, will be supported by N65bn subsidy to augment the capital expenditure of the infracos. However, it was gathered that the subsidy arrangement, which was ready one year ago is still waiting the approval of the Nigerian President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The President, Association of Telecommunications Company of Nigeria, Mr Olusola Teniola, said the expensive right of way, multiple taxes and forex scarcity were creating bottlenecks for operators to expand broadband infrastructure across the country. According to him, access to forex to import equipment for base stations and towers from other countries is difficult as the government has not prioritised forex to telecoms industry. “In terms of 4G in Nigeria, the situation we find ourselves in is that over the last eighteen months, there hasn’t been any significant investment in rolling out networks, including 4G,” Teniola said. He stated that the issue of destruction of telecoms infrastructure and theft were major challenges. He said, “In fact, it is one of the biggest inhibitors because it actually dissuades investors from coming to this country as it demonstrates that we do not have security in place. “If unwarranted destruction of infrastructure is prevalent in any society, no Foreign Direct Investment and no investor would feel safe to bring in money to develop the country.” Highlighting sectoral challenges recently, Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecommumications Operators of Nigeria, Gbenga Adebayo, said operators were regularly faced with access denial or exorbitant cost of Right of Way by state governments, vandalism of telecom infrastructure, poor or lack of access to public electricity to run telecom operations. Others, according to him, are multiple taxations and regulations. He said there was a need for an executive order to protect telecom infrastructure as well as a national digital policy. Following the expiration of the 2013-2018 National Broadband Plan, a new plan had been designed in partnership with the Government of the United Kingdom. The draft report was submitted by the Chairman of the Committee, Ms Funke Opeke, to the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, last week. The Committee is co-chaired by a former Executive Commissioner Technical Services at NCC, Dr Bashir Gwandu,  while NCC’s Executive Commissioner Technical Services, Ubale Maska, is the secretary of the committee. Pantami inaugurated the committee on  December 16, 2019 to develop a new National Broadband Plan 2020-2025 that would be a guiding template for further development of the telecommunications sector. The  2013-2018 National Broadband Plan was designed to achieve at least 30 per cent broadband penetration in Nigeria while new plan aims to extend the penetration to 70 per cent. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    