Johnny Edward The Federal Government is yet to release the N1.5bn approved for the Super Eagles to compete at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, Sports Extra has exclusively gathered. The Eagles finished third at the tournament behind winners Algeria and runners-up Senegal. A top source in the Nigeria Football Federation told Sports Extra that the NFF had to divert the funds meant for the Super Falcons and the Flying Eagles to prepare the Eagles for the tournament. At last year’s AFCON in Egypt, the Eagles staged a protest over unpaid wages and bonuses ahead of their second game against Guinea, before the FG approved funds for payment of the players. But our correspondent learnt that the FG’s approved N1.5bn for the NFF for competition was yet to be released, nine months later. “We are in dire need of funds to prepare our teams for the qualification tournaments in 2020,” our source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent. “The funds meant for other teams (the Flying Eagles and the Super Falcons) were used to prepare the team for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. At the moment we still owe players of those teams.” Though the Eagles received funds from Federal Government during the tournament according to the Nigerian Football Federation’s vice president, Seyi Akinwunmi, but the money released was to pay the players their only outstanding entitlement and their win bonus during the tournament. When Sports Extra also contacted the Ministry for Sports, the Special Adviser Media to the Minister of Youth and Sports Sunday Dare, John Joshua-Akanji, said he was unaware of the non-remittance of funds. “I’m not aware of that, “Joshua-Akanji told Sports Extra. “If they (NFF) feel they are yet to disburse funds meant for the team, they should reach out to the minister and table their complaint.” Nigeria host Sierra Leone on match-day three of their 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers on March 27 in Asaba, with the return leg coming up four days later at the Siaka Stevens Stadium in Freetown. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    