Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammad, has vowed that his predecessor, Mohammed Abubakar, and his associates will be arrested and prosecuted for allegedly looting N1tn from the state treasury. The governor directed the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice to prosecute everyone found to have illegally appropriated the assets and funds of the state. Mohammed gave the directive on Tuesday after receiving the report of the Assets and Funds Recovery Panel at the Government House in Bauchi. The PUNCH had reported that the panel, which was constituted by Mohammed in July last year with the mandate to investigate assets and funds found to have been looted between 2007 and 2019, declared last Saturday that former governors Isa Yuguda and Mohammed Abubakar and their associates must return N1tn to the state coffers. Yuguda was Bauchi State governor between 2007 and 2015 while Abubakar, was in office from 2015 to 2019. But reacting to his indictment by the assets and funds recovery panel, Abubakar in a statement by his spokesman, Ali M. Ali, described it as “diversionary and laughable.” On Tuesday, after receiving the panel’s report, the incumbent governor said, “We will not take issue with anyone; we have given the directive, we will bring out documents very soon with which we will arrest him (ex-governor Abubakar); we will take him to court and prosecute him because he doesn’t have immunity anymore. The governor alleged that the costs of some of the contracts awarded in the last administration were inflated, adding that some were not completed but the money was paid in full. According to him, the panel discovered that “30 per cent out of 70 per cent of the projects executed or awarded seems to have been looted. “The EFCC and the ICPC will be contacted to look into the alleged financial mismanagement under the previous administration.” The chairman of the panel, Brig. Gen. Markus Yake, said the committee had recovered “23 assorted vehicles,” four tractors and a bus. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  