Temiloluwa O’Peters The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission has intervened in the conflicts between the electricity distribution companies and some communities within Abuja Electricity Distribution Company and Enugu Electricity Distribution Company networks. In line with its regulatory function to ensure consumer protection, NERC held a meeting with the parties at the NERC head office Abuja, according to a statement. The Commissioner, Consumer Affairs, Dr Moses Arigu, acted as chairman and was assisted by the General Manager, Consumer Affairs, Mrs Olufunke Dinneh, among other staff of the division. In the AEDC network, the Mada Community in the Akwanga Local Government Area of Nasarawa State had accused the Disco of issuing high estimated billing and very poor electricity supply. This, he said, led to the non-payment of bills by the community and resistance to disconnection of defaulting customers by the AEDC. It was later alleged that the AEDC’s area office was vandalised, leaving two staff members of the company injured. Consequently, the AEDC closed their area office within the vicinity and the entire community was disconnected from supply. At the meeting, NERC emphasised the need for the customers to pay their bills as and when due and the Discos to provide quality supply of electricity and ensure appropriate billing. The meeting stressed the existing customer complaint redress mechanism in the sector, which should have been leveraged instead of the act of vandalising electrical infrastructure. Electricity supply was later restored to the community. Within the EEDC network, the NERC intervened on the issue of crazy billing and vandalised substation, which led to prolonged outage with respect to Enuguabo village in Ufuma, Anambra State, and Afikpo in Ebonyi State. Adagbe Abagana community in Anambra State also benefitted from the commission’s intervention, according to the statement. It said exhaustive deliberations resulted in the execution of a memorandum of understanding between parties present at the meeting aimed at parties taking critical steps towards bringing a lasting solution to the matter. The Deputy Managing Director, EEDC, Mr Paul Okeke, signed on behalf of the EEDC and Mr Anayo Etusi and Mr Victor Nwokolo signed on behalf of Adagbe Abagana, Enuguagbo and Afikpo communities respectively. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 