Mixed reactions from Lagos husbands and wives have trailed government’s stay-at-home directive following the COVID-19 pandemic. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Lagos State Government had last week directed closure of open markets, recreational centres, saloons and other public places with exception of those selling food, medicine and other life-saving essentials. The government had earlier directed its workers on Grade Levels 12 and below to work from home except those on essential duties. The Federal Government had equally directed its workers on similar grade levels to work from home before ordering a lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and  Abuja for 14 days with effect from Monday night. Only a few categories of workers and companies are excepted from the lockdown. All the directives are aimed at checking coronavirus spread. Speaking with NAN on the effects of the stay-at-home order, some wives in Lagos, expressed delight, saying that it had strengthened bonding between them and their spouses. Conversely, some husbands expressed dissatisfaction at the development, which some of them described as house arrest. They claimed that it rendered them redundant. A resident of Okokomaiko, Mrs Nkiru Ekene, told NAN that the order had positive and negative effects. According to her, she is happy that the order has compelled her husband to spend time with her and their children, thereby strengthening bond between the couple and among all the family members. “The situation has afforded us an opportunity to monitor the kids, my caregivers and certain attitudes they exhibit in my absence. “However, it has also weakened financial strength, since many husbands earn their incomes through daily sales,’’ she said. Mrs Kosisochukwu Ndubuisi,  who lives in the same area, expressed joy that the situation had kept her husband beside her for the greater part the days. “Yes, I will say that I am happy that my husband is always in the house. “Before now, most men spend much time in drinking bars after work, instead of returning home to their families, but now, the situation changed. “The only disadvantage is that my husband complains about finances, but it is well,” she said. Also, a trader at the Alaba International Market, Ojo, Mrs Queen Austin, told NAN that the order has enabled couples to interact better although paucity of finances might become a setback. “l now spend more time with my spouse and kids, but I think the time for the stay-at-home should not be long. READ ALSO: COVID-19 cases rise to 131 in Nigeria “Again, there is no more opportunity for him to drink with friends; now, if we need to drink,  we do it together,” she said. Meanwhile, a Lagos businessman, Mr Bonny Chinwuba, expressed dissatisfaction with the sit-at-home order, claiming that it had crippled his finances and businesses. “The situation is unbearable. I was supposed to conclude my business in Calabar before this order was made, and now, it has caused me a setback,” he stated.