The National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos was on Monday shut down following the coronavirus outbreak. Bode Durotoye, the Liaison Officer of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, told the News Agency of Nigeria that the directive was from Sunday Dare, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development. Durotoye said the facility would be re-opened to the public when the situation improves. “I got the directive from the minister this morning (Monday) that we should shut down the National Stadium in Lagos temporarily in line with the Federal Government’s directive that all social gatherings should be suspended for now,” he said. NAN reports that the Lagos State Government had directed that not more than 50 people should gather at any public place for now. The liaison officer said the steps were part of governments’ initiatives to curtail the spread of the virus in the country. He added that the office last Friday had issued notices to all the fitness clubs operating at the stadium not to use the facility from Monday, till further notice. “I have asked my staff to ensure that the people using the stadium for sports and businesses comply with the directive. “I urge all the users of the stadium to stay away from the stadium for now. “All the offices and businesses in the stadium are closed till further notice. “As soon as the situation improves, the stadium will be re-opened for the use of the public,” Durotoye said. NAN also reports that the Lagos State Sports Commission had shut it facilities for the same reason. The usual early morning physical exercise and jogging had stopped in compliance with the directive by the liaison office that Keep Fit Clubs operating at the stadium should stay off. President Muhammadu Buhari had last week postponed the National Sports Festival slated for Edo State. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 