Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr.(CFA) What started as a distant terror has now become a reality within reach. The coronavirus disease, codenamed COVID-19, seemed very far away for most of us. How many Nigerians would have imagined that, in less than three months, several of our cities would go on some variation of a lockdown? The gumption of some state governments has been commendable, however, irrespective of the intention, the unprecedented restriction of activities in these past few days has caused millions of Nigerians, including myself, to already feel caged. It breaks my heart to learn of the huge number of deaths being recorded daily across Europe. and now the US. Every time I read an update, I am quick to say a prayer for Nigeria and the rest of Africa. If we have a full-blown outbreak, how would we cope? What becomes of the everyday citizens of a country that is already shamefully referred to as the poverty capital of the world? Where would they be treated, where are the ventilators and the beds? How long would the battle between logic and self-sustenance last? How many days can the average Nigerian stay without ‘hustling’ for daily bread, even at risk to his life and that of his loved ones? These thoughts are hard to bear and these are indeed difficult times around the world. However, as in all periods of uncertainty, these are great times for opportunity. A good number of techies and ecosystem builders are developing tools that can support in the multi-dimensional fight against COVID-19. Here are a few of the initiatives geared towards helping us win: This challenge is pioneered by Ventures Platform, founded by Kola Aina, in partnership with the Lagos State Science Research and Innovation Council with support from LoftyInc, ACIOE, Wennovation, Flutterwave, AGS Tribe, SilverChip Consulting, Bluechip Technologies, IROKOtv, Lakunle Runsewe and Manasseh Egedegbe. The target ideas are around heat mapping, preventive, or, information bots, solutions to assist with lifestyle adjustments, COVID-19 reporting and more. Six winners from the competition will receive a $2,000 equity-free grant opportunity for further funding, as well as, access to virtual workspace and mentorship, from some of Africa’s top healthcare, business and technology leaders, such as, Rebecca Enonchong, Alexis Roman, O.O. Nwoye, Seun Onigbinde, Titi Akinsanmi, Ola Brown, Ifeanyi Nsofor, Ebi Ofrey and Femi Kuti. Note that as at the time of writing this piece, the selected start-ups have pitched to the judges and the process to decide on the winners is still ongoing. We know the lockdown, or slowdown as it were, will not last forever. However, the longer it persists, the more broken the supply and distribution chains will become. This means that we might run out of some important tools at some point or at the very least, they may become much more expensive. Clintonel Innovation Centre is trying to fill this by setting up a special engineering team to identify the essential medical equipment required by hospitals, adopt the designs for affordable and scalable production in Nigeria, build prototypes, design and fabricate moulds, for their mass production. It will also make designs, prototypes and moulds, available to the public, for easy replication. In addition, they are also making available their Digital Fabrication Lab including: 3D Printers, CNC machines, Arduino microcontroller boards and so forth to any inventor, designer, or engineer within Nigeria who is working to fight coronavirus. If you are interested in using their facilities, partnering with them, or sharing information with them, check out www.clintonel.biz The co-founder of Tokeeto, Caleb Lucas is, currently, building a platform called, www.project19.com.ng that, will support health workers and policy makers, during this period. It will serve, as a platform, to collate and manage incidences, across the country. What the platform requires, at the moment is, adoption – it needs more people, taking advantage and actually, using the tool, as we, collectively, fight the pandemic. As all schools have been rightfully closed, 9ijakids.com, an edtech startup, is granting free access to educational games to keep kids engaged during this period. 9ijakids.com is currently offering access at nil cost to support parents, guardians and children during these unprecedented times. There are a number of initiatives that, I have come across, in the last few days, all geared towards providing solutions to ensure we win the mental and physical battle against a lethal enemy that our healthcare system stands little chance against. I call on all members of the ecosystem to continue with the good work and stay firmly on the brighter side of possibility. SabiTeach is set to train over 10,000 students online for free, in the view of the global health crisis, posed by the coronavirus,  in a bid to curb its spread, since the Lagos State government closed the primary and secondary schools. This effort will ensure that students continue to learn while we hope for the best outcome across the world. By the way, they are also looking for volunteers who may want to dedicate some time to teach, so if interested, you can reach out at sabiteach.com The team, at Nigeria Centre for Disease Control has done well with how they have combined various digital tools to push out information on COVID-19 and this includes the use of social media, infographics, website and Whatsapp. I, particularly like the fact that the NCDC WhatsApp line is functioning and I encourage Nigerians to use this as a first line of contact, for non-emergency enquiries. With this service, you can get the latest updates on #COVID19NIGERIA; learn more about how test is carried out and receive urgent messages, from NCDC.. Simply add the number: 07087110839. This service, allows for a two-way conversation on WhatsApp. NCDC, will send real-time messages to all those who opt in and they can also engage directly with the centre. We need to take the threat of Covid-19 seriously. Take precautions and maintain high self hygiene. What we must avoid at all cost is to get our health sector under pressure – we do not, even have enough doctors to start with. Countries with many more doctors are already overwhelmed, talkless of a nation that has encouraged her medical professionals to seek greener pastures abroad. We remain hopeful that our nation will not be consumed by this because honestly, we are really not prepared. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 