Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has said it will commence the tracking of constituency projects in Bayelsa State very soon. The ICPC Commissioner in charge of Rivers and Bayelsa states, Alexander Chukwurah, said this during a town hall meeting themed ‘My Constituency, My Project,’ jointly organised by the commission and the National Orientation Agency in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State on Thursday. He said Bayelsa was not among the 12 pilot states of the federation where the tracking of constituency projects was done after the anti-graft agency established the Constituency Projects Monitoring Group in June last year. Chukwurah, while calling on the people to provide useful information, said, “We have not tracked any project in Bayelsa State. What we are doing is to prepare grounds for the tracking. “What we have done before now is tracking in 12 pilot states. Bayelsa was not part of the 12 states. I have come here to announce our impending arrival for the tracking. So get ready for us.” Chukwurah said until the people took ownership of constituency projects located in their communities, it would be difficult to monitor such projects. In her remarks, the Bayelsa State Director of NOA, Mariah Timitimi, said after 20 years of uninterrupted democracy in the country, there had been concerns about how constituency projects could be made to deliver the desired gains to the people. The state chairman of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria, Kia Perediseghebofa, who chaired the occasion, said it was wrong for representatives in the legislature to impose projects on their constituents. Perediseghebofa, who is also the Chairman of Southern Ijaw Local Government Council, advised lawmakers to always meet with their constituents to know their needs. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   