Leke Baiyewu, Abuja A member of the House of Representatives, Mr Simon Atigwe, has asked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to declare a state of emergency on  coronavirus  fast spreading  in Nigeria. Atigwe, who urged the Federal Government to establish an isolation centre in each of the 744 local government areas of the country,  sought  tougher measures to contain the disease. He also urged the President to “immediately set up an emergency fund to help the country fight COVID-19.” The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, at a press conference  in Abuja on Monday said the Federal Government planned to unveil new measures, including deploying the  military and  police to trace over 1,300 contacts of infected persons. The House  also on Tuesday asked that the hostels in the Federal Government Colleges be  converted to isolation centres. In a statement  on Wednesday, Atigwe however said imposing a state of  emergency  to contain the disease  outbreak  would make more impact  as the country  battles to stop the virus from spreading. The lawmaker, who represents Igbo-Eze North/Ndenu Federal Constituency of Enugu State,  said the  move  would  also help  those already infected to recover quickly. He said the move would further boost the measures  put in place to mitigate the impact of the pandemic  on people’s health, their economic lives. Atigwe also called on the federal and state governments to provide standard equipment and facilities  for  the centres. He said, “There is a need for the Federal Government to do a little more beyond closing of airports, schools and sporting events, among other measures. The government should make the establishment of testing centres in all local government a top priority. “The non-availability of testing centres in the South-East and  North before now is not good enough for the country and there is a need for adequate preparations by the government in every part of the country. “The National Assembly will be willing to approve funds for the Federal Government to establish the centres and their continued upgrading to the required standards. Also, standard isolation centres should be built in all states with the support of the Federal Ministry of Health.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   