Leke Baiyewu, Abuja A member of the House of Representatives, Mr Ade Adeogun, has urged Nigerians to obey health guidelines to prevent the continued spread of coronavirus in the country. The representative of  Akoko South-East/South-West, Ondo State, told  those  who  returned to the country from overseas recently  to isolate themselves. In a statement on Friday by his media aide, Israel Fagbemigun,  the legislator said COVID-19 was real. He said, “This is not time to test the capacity of government or the efficiency of our medical responders, it is a time to obey guidelines, observe basic hygiene by washing our hands each time we touch any object. It is a time to maintain the prescribed social distance. “This is a time that those who have history of recent visits to other countries or exposure to those who tested positive or have the potential to be infected, to voluntarily self-isolate for the good of all of us. “This is not a time to worry about jobs, businesses, assets or anything that could affect our mental health. It is a time to stay healthy. “This uncertain time provides an opportunity for us to rediscover our spirit of communal living… looking after each other and caring for one another.” “As we observe social distancing, let us support one another, share whatever we have with those who do not have…provisions, resources, food, books. “Let us empathise with the vulnerable and support each other to maintain our mental health. “We do not know how long this would last so we must bind together, holding on to our faith in God, that this too shall pass.” Adeogun said  Nigerians had moved from a state of disbelief to a state of panic, going by records of victims testing positive  for  the virus. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   