Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Federal Road Maintenance Agency, Femi Bamisile, has lauded the amicable resolution of the rift between the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and some traditional rulers under the aegis of Pelupelu Obas over the chairmanship of the council of traditional rulers in the state. He said in a statement in Ado Ekiti on Saturday that “the level of maturity, understanding and readiness displayed to end the rift by both parties in the interest of Ekiti State is worthwhile and commendable. “Also, the quick intervention by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, and the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, is royally.” The statement was over the settlement in the week of the disagreement between the governor and the Pelupelu Obas over the appointment and installation of the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi, as the chairman of the state Traditional Council. Bamisile, who said the resolution would largely contribute to moving the state forward, said, “Traditional rulers, as custodians of culture, are partners in progress in the task of developing society, hence the need to always involve them in the scheme of things for rapid development”. The lawmaker representing Ekiti South Federal Constituency II, who described Fayemi as a monarch-friendly governor, said, “The All Progressive Congress government in the state will continue to partner all the traditional rulers, giving them due respect and recognition at bringing more development to all nooks and crannies of the state. “The traditional institution remains sacred and must always be treated as such, hence the maturity displayed by Governor Fayemi to continue to give respect and due recognition to the body. “Though, the opposition parties in the state had wanted to seize the avenue to score cheap political points by fuelling the matter, the development was swiftly curtailed by the humility and respect of the governor for all.” He thanked the monarchs for acting like true fathers of the state by allowing the imbroglio to be buried once and for all. He said, “The action of the Obas will, no doubt, facilitate more development in the state. It will also allow the governor to concentrate more on his good agenda for the people.” ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  