Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency said on Monday that it had closed some event centres and clubs for flouting the order of the state government banning the gathering of more than 20 persons. The facilities locked up include the Regency Hall, Imperial Hall, Matinos Hall and Suites, Famcity Club, Lekki Xhale and Shisha Lounge. The General Manager, LASEPA, Dolapo Fasawe, said the agency received over 70 calls from concerned residents of the state to report their neighbours, who organised social gatherings with over 200 participants. Fasawe, who also stated that the agency received reports of schools advising their pupils to come in mufti to finish their examinations, said the agency would go after any schools found to be flouting the ban order. She stated, “The directive was meant to ensure the safety of everyone. You can postpone your birthday, wedding or whatever ceremony; only the living celebrate these ceremonies. That is why we must comply with the order. We shouldn’t because of any gains endanger the lives of others by organising parties at this time. “The ban on public and social gatherings by the governor became imperative in order to save our dear state and prevent our people from contracting the coronavirus. COVID-19 has become a global pandemic, therefore, serious measures such as this must be taken to reduce the spread and further stem the outbreak of the virus. “It’s advisable that we adopt social distancing by keeping at least six-foot distance between ourselves and others to prevent transmitting the virus seamlessly. For now, let us avoid crowds and large gatherings such as weddings, concerts, sporting events, conferences and so forth. “We are not unmindful of the implication of the restriction, but it is crucial that we collectively limit and control the spread. Lagos State is not in isolation, it’s a global pandemic, therefore, this strong effort to suppress and push it back.” While urging private and public institutions to install hand-washing facilities at the entrances of their facilities, Fasawe warned all club owners to stop harbouring people in poorly ventilated areas. The Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, urged residents of the state to support the government in its fight against coronavirus, adding that the war on the virus could only be won if everyone obeyed the directive on social gatherings and avoid actions and activities that could put everyone at risk. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 