Adelani  Adepegba, Chukwudi Akasike, Dayo Ojerinde and Matthew Ochei Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehinare, has said that the Federal Government was not contemplating imposition of travel ban over the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease. Addressing members of the diplomatic corps during an interactive parley on the new visa regime in Abuja on Thursday, Ehinare assured the foreign diplomats on the measures put in place by the Federal Government to contain the spread of the disease, noting that “there was no immediate reason for now to impose travel ban.” He said the country was guided by the World Health Organisation guideline on coronavirus containment. “Nigeria has not yet placed any travel restriction or ban, but we strongly advise against non-essential travel to countries with the high level of transmission which we define now as China, Japan, South Korea, Italy and Iran,” Ehanire stated. The meeting which was at the instance of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, centred on measures taken by the Nigerian government in tackling the coronavirus and clarification on Nigeria’s ‘Visa Policy 2020.’ In attendance were the Minister of State, Health, Olorunnimbe Mamora, the Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Amb. Mustapha Suleiman, and the Director-General of the National Centre for Disease Control, Chikwe Ihekweazu. Ehinare said since the outbreak of the virus in Wuhan, China, the Ministry of Health had been strengthening Nigeria’s response and capacity for public health challenges. Ehanire added that as of March 11, 2020, there were two confirmed cases of COVID-19 disease in the country, stating that there had been no death or serious illness. Coronavirus may plunge states into recession The Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, has expressed fear that the prevailing adverse effect of the coronavirus on the global economy poses a serious threat to the implementation of the 2020 budget. Okowa who stated this on Thursday while speaking to journalists in Asaba, said states might soon plunge into economic recession as a result of dwindling oil prices. He said, “In the last few weeks, we have been battling with the price of oil. Now, it has affected our 2020 budget; we are waiting for the Federal Government to review its 2020 budget and come out with the new benchmark. “It is a big threat to the global economy. The oil price has gone down from $65 per barrel to $35 per barrel within one month as many industries are no longer buying oil. “It is obvious that our 2020 budget is being threatened by the falling oil price as a result of coronavirus. “Obviously, it is going to affect our Internallly Generated Revenue and family will be affected as well.” The governor noted that he had already met with the state economic team with a view to slowing down on capital projects to avoid plunging into economic recession. Rivers gets committee on disease The Rivers State Executive Council has set up a committee to create awareness on the prevention of coronavirus in the state. State Commissioner for Information and Communication, Paulinus Nsirim, told journalists that the State Executive Council meeting presided over by Governor Nyesom Wike on Thursday approved the five-member executive council committee. He said, “The State Executive Council reviewed the global pandemic and set up a five-member committee to carry out an aggressive awareness campaign on the prevention of coronavirus. “Members of the committee are the Commissioner for Information and Communication, Paulinus Nsirim (Chairman), Commissioner for Health, Prof. Chike Princewill (member), Commissioner for Environment, Dr Igbiks Tamuno (member), Commissioner for Chieftaincy and Community Affairs,  Olisa Tasie-Amadi (member) and Commissioner for Youth Affairs, Ohia Prince (member). Pandemic containment is possible — NAS The Nigerian Academy of Science has said the COVID-19 pandemic containment is possible if the right steps are taken by everybody. In a statement on Thursday, the President of the academy, Prof. Mosto Onuoha, lamented that with the strict control measures that had been instituted in China, the number of new cases outside the Asian country now exceeded those within China. “Some countries such as Nepal and Sri Lanka, with imported cases of COVID-19 have not reported any new case for over four weeks. These tell us that it is possible to arrest the spread of the disease if the right steps are taken. “The known measures already in place via regular and proper washing of hands, screening at the ports of entry, quarantine/isolation, contact tracing, public enlightenment, use of personal protective equipment, as well as equipping and training of health workers are effective in containing the spread of the virus. These should be strengthened in Nigeria,” Onuoha said. He added that there was the need to guard against the spread of rumours and scientifically unfounded stories. Four siblings, teacher test negative The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has said four children and their teacher who came in from the United States tested negative for coronavirus. Abayomi, via his twitter handle @ProfAkinAbayomi, on Thursday said, “A family of four children and their teacher who came in from the United States and were in close proximity with someone infected with #COVID19 have tested negative.” Recall that Abayomi had on Wednesday said they were admitted after returning from the United States of America. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  