Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Attorney General of the Federation,  Abubakar Malami (SAN), and Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, on Tuesday, failed to honour the summons of the Federal High Court in Abuja to appear for a case challenging the constitution of an interim management committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission. Justice Ahmed Mohammed on March 3 summoned Buhari, the AGF and others joined as defendants in the suit to appear in court on Tuesday to show cause why the committee should not be restrained by the plaintiffs. The  other defendants are Godswill Akpabio, who was sued separately in his personal capacity and as Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, the NDDC, and its interim  committee. Neither Buhari nor Malami was represented by any lawyer  despite the service of the court order on them through the AGF’s office. Lawan  was also not represented by any lawyer. But Akpabio, the NDDC and the disputed interim board were represented by their lawyers. While Isyaku Saleh represented Akpabio and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs (third and fourth defendants),  Alex Ejesieme (SAN), represented  the  NDDC and the interim committee (sixth and seventh defendants). Ejesieme shortly before the proceedings filed a “conditional memorandum of appearance” indicating an intention to challenge the jurisdiction of the court to hear the case. The plaintiffs are 13 civil society groups  represented in court by their lawyer, Kingdom Okere. On December 12, 2019, they  filed an ex parte application for a restraining order to be issued against the NDDC  interim committee. But instead of restraining the committee as requested by the applicants, the judge on March 3  directed  the defendants to appear in court on Tuesday to show why the applicants’ request should not be granted. In their main suit, the plaintiffs alleged that the  NDDC interim committee was “constituted illegally” by Akpabio  to perform “the statutory functions of the management board of the NDDC”. They contended that “contrary to the appointment made by the President, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs illegally constituted and inaugurated an interim management board for the commission to run the affairs of the commission for six months during which a forensic audit will be carried out.” They added that “the appointment of the interim committee  was in conflict with the statutory provisions of the NDDC Establishment Act.” While the controversy over the legality of the committee was on, Buhari  on February 26 approved the composition of a Presidential Monitoring Committee headed by Akpabio to monitor the activities of the NDDC. The plaintiffs are  Centre for Strategy, Ethics and Value, Delta Youth Advocacy for Development, Leadership and Society Aid Initiative, Nigerian Women for Democracy Support UK, Centre for Social Value and Early Childhood Development, Socio-cultural Initiative and Association for Unity and Progress. Others are the Equity and Transparency Development Initiative, Northern Patriotic Front multi-purpose Coop.Sco. Ltd., Young Leadership Association of Nigeria, Northern Youth Advocacy for Excellence, Centre for Sustenance of Rule of Law and the Kingdom Human Rights Foundation International. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  