Okechukwu Nnodim The Federal Government has released N700m to carry out survey works on the project site for the 3,050 megawatts Mambilla Hydropower Plant in Taraba State. The Federal Ministry of Power said the N700m, which was released to the Taraba State Government, would be used by surveyors to ascertain the actual land area for the project before the commencement of compensation to beneficiaries. Officials at the FMP told our correspondent in Abuja that the payment of compensation to owners of the land where the N2tn power plant is located had yet to begin. “Survey activity usually precedes compensation because you need to get the total land area. After that, you can then identify beneficiaries, as well as know the number of those displaced and those to be relocated,” the Special Assistant to the Minister of Power on Media and Communications, Aaron Artimas, stated. He stated that about four weeks ago, there was a stakeholders’ meeting in Abuja, which was attended by the governor of Taraba State and other stakeholders. “Also, representatives of the host communities were at the meeting and they formed a committee at the instance of the ministry in order to be able to adequately articulate the interest of the communities that are involved,” Artimas said. He added, “It might also interest you to know that the traditional rulers, elected officials from Taraba and other representatives came here in Abuja where the minister formally announced that payments had been made to the Taraba State Government, which is over N700m to carry out survey activities.” The power minister’s aide noted that with the provision of the fund, the required enlightenment should be carried out by the state government because the land, as the Land Use Decree provides, belongs to the state. Officials at the power ministry further stated that the Federal Government had created inter-ministerial and intra-ministerial committees to help fast-track the delivery of the project. According to them, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had approved the constitution of two committees for the Mambilla hydroelectric project. Buhari approved the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee and Project Delivery Committee for the power plant. The Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, chairs the inter-ministerial steering committee, while the director in-charge of Renewable Energy in the Federal Ministry of Power heads the project delivery committee. The director reports to the power minister through the permanent secretary of the FMP. The Inter-ministerial Steering Committee is made up of representatives of Federal Government agencies and Taraba State Government. The Federal Government agencies involved are Ministries of Water Resources, Environment, Finance, Budget and National Planning, Works and Housing, Justice, Information and Culture, and Mines and Steel Development. Others are representatives of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, National Security Adviser, Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority and the Nigeria Customs Service. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  