Consumption of electricity is falling across Europe as coronavirus-related lockdowns begin to bite, data from Entso-e’s transparency website showed Wednesday. Load data showed year on year mid-March working day demand down on Monday and Tuesday this week by around 15 per cent in Italy, nine per cent in France, six per cent in the UK and 2.5 per cent in Germany, according to S&P Global Platts. The gaps are larger over a two-year view, when demand in March 2018 was heightened by the tail end of the “Beast from the East” cold spell. Compared with mid-March 2018, demand this week is down 22 per cent in France, 19 per cent in Italy, 11.6 per cent in the UK and 4.5 in Germany. Meanwhile data from Spain’s system operator, REE, show Spanish power demand down five per cent for the first full day of a 15-day lockdown Monday. S&P Global Platts Analytics said while industrial demand for power and gas has started to fall, a sustained drop for at least a year would be required to have an impact in line with the 2008 financial crisis. In 2009, industrial power demand in Italy, Germany and France was down by around 14 per cent on the year. In line with commodity price routs across the board, front-month power contracts have fallen sharply in Europe, down 24 per cent in Germany since the start of March, with big falls registered almost everywhere else. After a brief period of resilience, meanwhile, EU carbon allowance prices have also crashed, down over 30 per cent in a week. On March 13, the European Commission said EU GDP would likely drop by one per cent in 2020, compared with a 1.4 per cent growth forecast made a month earlier. “The new forecasts suggest an absolute drop in industrial emissions of at least 10 million–20 million mt in 2020, provided industrial production falls in line with GDP,” research unit Energy Aspects said Monday. Flight cancellations at 75 per cent would reduce EU aviation emissions by around 4.4 million mt for every month of disruption versus a scenario without coronavirus, it said. “Further downward revisions to our emissions forecasts for 2020 are likely as the pandemic continues to spread,” it said.