Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja AFEX Commodities Exchange Ltd has unfolded plans to unlock funding for 50,000 farmers. The Chief Executive Officer, AFEX, Mr Ayodeji Balogun said this in Abuja at a dinner shortly after the international conference on the Nigerian commodities market The conference which was organised by the Securities and Exchange Commission had as its theme, ‘Commodities trading ecosystem: Key to diversifying Nigeria’s economy.’ AFEX is  Nigeria’s first private sector commodity exchange firm established in 2014 under the aegis of the Africa Exchange Holdings Limited. Balogun said that AFEX had assisted small-holder farmers to record  about $50m transactions in agriculture value chain across 15 states in Nigeria. He said with the agricultural sector employing about 40 per cent of labour force, there was a need  to unlock funding for the sector in order to enable the government effectively diversify the economy. He said, ‘’AFEX has since reached and enhanced the livelihoods of over 100,000 farmers and aggregated 100,000 metric tons of grains with the organisation’s overarching strategy of a national trading platform and supply chain network in carefully identified value chains. “Through this, farmers and commodity merchants can access the financial markets. So when you focus on agricultural commodities exchange, beyond being 25 per cent of our economy and employ the latest pool in the country, it is actually one that can give us the kind of inclusive growth that we need. “This is why the administration has focused very heavily on the agricultural sector. “We would be unlocking finance to about 50,000 farmers across state. This, we will do by partnering with the capital market as well as some micro finance institutions that provide financing for the structures that we have created.” The AFEX Vice President, Financial Market, Akin Akintunde  said the awards were given to stakeholders that has supported AFEX to boost the agricultural value. At the event, some stakeholders were given awards for their contributions to the development of the Commodities Exchange. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  