Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Stakeholders in the aviation industry have called for better measures to protect air transport workers from the coronavirus disease. They noted that having monitored developments around COVID-19 global pandemic, it was saddening that the air transport workers remained one of the most hazardously exposed sets of people in Nigeria. Unions in the industry said the condition had reduced its members to endangered species in their various workplaces. The National Union of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers, the Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, the Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals and the National Union of Air Transport Employees said workers health should be prioritised. In a joint statement on Tuesday, the unions urged the various managements in the aviation industry to prioritise the provision of sanitary apparels, consumables such as facial masks, hand sanitizers, hand gloves and protective clothing to frontline workers interfacing with passengers, even at the local airports. The unions said, “We want to use this medium to commend the managements in the aviation industry, who have put the safety of their workers above all other considerations by allowing some categories of workers to work from the isolation of their homes in the meantime in the interest of health and safety. We encourage those who are yet to take that initiative to look into it in good time. “Though our international airports activities have been restricted, it is an uncomfortable fact that COVID-19 is already in our midst in Nigeria. It is therefore our demand that a proper measure be put in place to provide insurance cover for our members in the event of fatal consequence from COVID-19 in their line of duties.” The Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Capt. Musa Nuhu, on Monday ordered all personnel entering the airports to undergo temperature checks, hand cleaning and sanitisation. Meanwhile, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria has said contrary to reports, domestic airports were still open. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  