Adelani Adepegba, Abuja JuSTICE M. Sifawa of the Sokoto State High Court has sentenced a scammer, Mobuse John, to 10 years in prison for cheating. The convict was, however, given an option of N200,000 fine. John was prosecuted on one count by the Sokoto zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for setting up a fake Petroleum Technology Development Fund website with which he defrauded one Usman Umar of N2,000. The charge read, “That you, Mobuse John, sometime in October 2019 in Sokoto within the judicial division of the High Court of Justice of Sokoto State, committed an offence to wit; cheating by fraudulently inducing one Usman Ibn Umar to deliver to you the sum of N2,000 for the PTDF scholarship, past question papers and aptitude test for undergraduate and post-graduate awards in Nigerian colleges of education, polytechnics and universities for the 2019/2020 academic session via a website: http:11 www,pdfscholarship.eu, as well as other members of the public, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 310 (a) of the Sokoto State Penal Code Law 2019 and punishable under Section 311 of the same law.” This was contained in a statement on Wednesday, by the acting EFCC spokesman, Tony Orilade. Upon his arraignment, John pleaded guilty to the charge and the prosecution counsel, S. Sa’ad, asked the court to convict and sentence him in line with the provisions of the law. He also prayed the court to close the website as well as the account used in committing the fraud. However, the defence counsel, Shamsu Dauda, pleaded with the court to temper justice with mercy “as his client was a first-time offender, who has become remorseful.” He also told the court that the convict had fully paid restitution to the victim. Justice Sifawa, thereafter, convicted and sentenced the defendant to 10 years’ imprisonment with an option of N200,000 fine. He also ordered the closure of the convict’s bank account as well as the fake PTDF website. Similarly, the Makurdi zonal office of the EFCC, on Thursday, arraigned one Musa Abubakar before Justice M. A. Ikpambese of the Benue State High Court sitting in Makurdi on one count of criminal breach of trust. The defendant allegedly absconded with 4,500 bags of cement valued at N10.4m in 2018. Abubakar pleaded not guilty to the charge, the acting EFCC spokesman, Tony Orilade, said in a statement. Based on his plea, the prosecuting counsel, G. Chia-Yakua, requested a trial date and asked the court to remand the defendant in a correctional centre. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  