Peter Dada and Success Nwogu Tragedy struck on the Akure-Owo Expressway in Ilu-Abo town in Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State on Saturday when an explosion destroyed no fewer than 70 buildings in the community. Some of the properties destroyed included houses, a church, school and petrol station, all of which were worth millions of naira. The explosion, said to have occurred at about 1am on Saturday, divided the expressway into two and left a pit on the busy highway. The vehicle was however buried in the ground. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, who visited the scene in company with some security chiefs in the state as well as some members of his cabinet, described the incident as unfortunate. He said, “This is a destruction of monumental impact. The brief I received is that it was an accidental discharge of explosives that was in transit through Ondo State to another state where it was needed. We would advise all citizens and residents not to come near the place at all because as we were told, the vehicle that was carrying the explosive is still in the ground and we don’t know the number of explosives that are left.” He also used the occasion to advise people to maintain social distancing to avoid the coronavirus. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Undie Adie, said investigation had commenced into the matter. He noted that the vehicle carrying the explosives was duly escorted by trained and equipped personnel of Police Explosive Ordnance Department but that the vehicle developed a fault on the way. He said, “When the driver noticed the fault, from the explanation of the escort commander, they had to move away from where there were houses in Akure so that they could put off the problem. “When they parked and noticed that smoke was coming out from the engine, the effort to control it wasn’t successful, rather it was fire and they had to move away quickly from the scene by taking the normal professional drill which was how they were all saved. READ ALSO: Prayers, support, precautions protecting us against coronavirus — Nigerians in China “It is an accident and I’m not sure it is what we could not have been able to control.” As of the time of filing this report, no death was recorded but several persons were injured, especially the worshippers of a church, The Possibility Prayer Mountain for all Nations, which was having a vigil. Residents, however, said the attendance would have been more but for the restriction order on account of the coronavirus. A source said one of the occupants of the truck was injured while other occupants escaped, adding that the truck, which was conveying the explosives to a quarry site in Edo State, was buried in the ground. Security agents have, however, cordoned off the scene while efforts were ongoing to evacuate the vehicle. Narrating their experiences, some residents of the community and Akure, the state capital, said they heard a loud sound akin to a bomb blast in the early hours of the day. The residents said the casualty figure would have been much if there had not been a stay-at-home order imposed by the government in response to the coronavirus pandemic. The principal of Aina Awwal International School, which is located close to the scene, Mr Jayeola Roland, said, “We thank God that our pupils are not in school now; it would have been worse. Almost every building on our premises was destroyed. We want to appeal to the government to come to our aid.” A resident of the community, Kayode Ajayi, lamented that the blast destroyed the ceiling of his house, which is about a kilometre to the scene. Another resident, Mrs Mariam Oni, said the roof of her house was blown off while the wall of the house cracked as a result of the blast. “We want to appeal to the government to come to our aid. The explosion wreaked havoc to this area,” she added. Meanwhile, the traditional head of the town, Chief Olu Falae, described the incident as a disaster. Falae, a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, added, “The Possibility Church and the school are very important to Ilu-Abo but they were destroyed. It is a great disaster to Ilu-Abo and Akureland. We want the government to quickly repair the road and the perpetrators of this evil act should compensate the victims.” The Peoples Democratic Party has, however, expressed shock over the explosion. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement, urged the Federal Government to immediately set up an inter-agency panel to conduct a forensic investigation into the remote and immediate cause of the explosion, particularly the source of the reported explosives and the purpose they were meant to serve. “The PDP also demands that the Federal Government should immediately provide palliatives to the victims as well as the community affected by the explosion,” he added. Also, Afenifere, in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yinka Odumakin, called for proper investigation to know the type of explosives. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Coronavirus lockdown saved my pupils from tragedy – Jaiyeola, principal of school damaged by Ondo blast He added, “While we have nothing to contradict the stated accounts yet, we demand an inquiry into this disaster in accordance with the Ordnance and Firearm Acts to be able to determine the type of ordinances that exploded. “While we wait for answers, we must express our displeasure with the rate of explosions in Yorubaland in recent times. First was the blast in Ekiti State in early February with investigation blaming it on ‘human error’. “This was followed by the massive explosion in Abule Ado in Lagos which was attributed to some spurious pipeline explosion which we rejected because the long-range impacts of that explosion could not have come from pipeline explosion.” He said the Abule Ado explosion seemed to suggest deliberate targeting. “While we wait to know the level of casualty in the latest incident in Ondo State, we appeal to our people to be very careful in these perilous times,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 