Samuel Awoyinfa The Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises has said it will address the challenges of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement in relation to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises during its international summit scheduled to hold in Owerri next week. The President and Chairman of council of NASME, Mr Degun Agboade, said this while briefing journalists about the summit/conference in Lagos on Thursday, stating that it became necessary as AfCTA was billed to commence on July 1, 2020. While listing mandates of the association as economic development, job creation, creation of huge African market and income generation, among others, he said the association had a representative in the National Working Committee set up by the Federal Government on AfCTA. He said, “We had slated the conference for last year, but it did not hold. Now, we have made up our mind to host the conference this year. It will be a gathering of captains of industries, government officials and players in the MSMEs within and outside the country. “Nigeria is already committed to the African Continental Free Trade Agreement and I would say we need to effectively prepare for it since it would take off from July 1. At the 18th conference in Owerri, we shall be discussing some of the challenges of the AfCTA and how to address those challenges.” Agboade who said many manufacturers had been hit by the fallouts of the coronavirus scourge explained that some of its members’ businesses were currently on the edge of being shut down. He said, “One of our members imports and sells toys from China. Now, his stock has been sold out, and there was nothing, and he could not travel to China to buy new stock. “Some of them in the pharmaceutical sector who got their raw materials from China and India also have problems. India is preserving their raw materials in the wake of the coronavirus scourge while China is totally locked down. Some of them in this sector are thinking of closing down their businesses. “Some others who had paid their counterpart funding for a capacity building in their specialised businesses are also affected. They are to go to South Korea, but the COVID-19 outbreak has also truncated that for now.” Agboade expatiating on the conference added that other activities lined up for the event would include panel discussions, networking and exhibition of locally-manufactured products and services by the MSMEs across the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  