Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The Minister of Health, Prof. Osagie Ehanire, has told the House of Representatives that the Federal Government needs sum of N6.71tn to implement the second National Health Plan over a period of five years. He said the plan was expected to reduce maternal mortality rate from 576 to 400 per 100,000 births, child and under-five mortality rates. Ehanire also said 20,000, out of the 30,000 primary health centres spread across the country under the Zonal Intervention Programmes by members of the National Assembly, also known as constituency projects, were a waste of resources. This, he said, was due to the faulty location and designs of the centres, among other issues. The minister made this known in Abuja on Thursday during an interactive session with the House Committee on Health Care Services and Institutions chaired by Pascal Obi. Ehanire noted that the strategic plan was a blueprint for the health sector till 2022. The minister, while stating that the PHCs was the bedrock of the health sector, pointed out that the “public health care system is not yet on the speed at all.” He said, “We are looking for one functional PHC in every political ward, which should give us 10,000 units. The Ministry of Health has redesigned, along with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, what the primary health centre should look like. The minister also announced plans by the Federal Government to collaborate with state governments in developing the secondary health care level by constructing general hospitals in each of the 774 Local Government Areas of the country. Ehanire also disclosed plans to set up emergency ambulance and toll services, while calling for adequate fund for the health sector especially by allocating 15 per cent of the national budget to the sector, in line with the ‘Abuja Declaration.’ He also urged the National Assembly to accelerate work on the National Health Insurance Scheme and other related legislations. “So, I want to use this opportunity to appeal to members of the House who have constituency projects related to health sector to contact the Ministry of Health. We want to give you the design and if that area already has a primary health care centre, we will see how we can add value to it either by supplying power, water, staff quarters or ambulance to raise the performance level of that centre,” the minister said. The minister also announced plans by the Federal Government to collaborate with state governments in developing the secondary health care level by constructing general hospitals in each of the 774 Local Government Areas of the country. The National Assembly, Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission and the Presidency had in 2019 traded blames over the alleged wastage of N1tn on constituency projects. .Both the Senate and the House had separately debunked the claim, stating that the amount released for execution of the projects was far lesser than the amount appropriated for them. The House had particularly condemned the ICPC for misleading Buhari into criticising the National Assembly. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  