Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command, on Tuesday, arraigned a 16-year-old girl before the Ebute Meta Magistrates’ Court for alleged murder. PUNCH Metro had reported that the defendant allegedly stabbed one Babatunde Ishola to death while he was trying to rape her on March 7, 2020. The deceased, who was a friend to the defendant’s father, had invited her to his house to assist him with fetching water when he allegedly attempted to rape her. The defendant reportedly picked a knife from the room and stabbed Ishola to death. The teenager was arraigned on one count of murder before Magistrate A. O. Adedayo. She pleaded not guilty to the charge. The offence was said to be contrary to Section 225 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Following her plea, the magistrate ordered that the defendant be remanded in the Correctional Home for Girls, Idi-Araba, and adjourned the case till April 27, 2020, for the state Director of Public Prosecutions’ advice. However, the state Office of the Public Defender said it had taken up the case on behalf of the defendant pro bono. The Director of the OPD, Olayinka Adeyemi, said the office would provide free legal services to other defendants being prosecuted in various courts. She stated, “The OPD will not only provide the suspect with free legal services, but also give her and other people being represented in courts in various cases qualitative legal representation, and our experience, knowledge and understanding of criminal laws of the land and principles will be used in handling all cases on behalf of our clients in courts until justice prevails. “I want to assure members of the public that no stone will be left unturned on the cases; all legal instruments in the arsenal of the OPD will be deployed to ensure that justice is not only done, but is seen to be done.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  