The Group Managing Director, SIFAX Group, Adekunle Oyinloye, talks about the maritime logistics sector and sundry issues in this interview with ANNA OKON How will you assess the performance of the logistics sector in 2019? Logistics sector appraisal from last year is not good enough, because we are a maritime country. As a nation, the major economic activity of the country would come from maritime. In fact, maritime is expected ordinarily to be a major contributor to our Gross Domestic Product. So whatever happens in that sector is key to any economy. Two, if you see the role maritime plays in countries like Singapore and a number of other such maritime nation, it’s very important. Now assessing the maritime or logistics sector in Nigeria, a whole lot of challenges are affecting its optimal performance. If you come from the area of seaports, the infrastructure there has minimised the ability of the operators to optimise their activities and their return on investments, and invariably also to contribute significantly to the GDP. If you look at the airport, because of our stagnant investment in that area too, it has also made the activities there sub-optimal. You now go to the road, the road infrastructure is probably even worse. The logistics sector has really suffered, and I don’t think our appraisal will actually give us a pass mark. You are talking about challenges, apart from the bad roads and the problem of tank farms, what other challenges did you have to battle with? If the roads are good, you know the sky is wide enough for all sort of birds to fly. So I won’t even see the tank farm on its’ own as constituting to the challenge of the logistics sector. For me, if the roads are good, the access roads to the port in particular, in and out, people can drive in and drive out like we used to have in those days, it would not have been a problem if the tank farms operate. They will operate at their own terms. But usually because of the risk they pose to the users of the roads, everywhere in the world you restrict them to a particular hour in the night. So that shouldn’t have been a problem. That’s what I see. But the major thing I see in logistics is – you want to have a number of cargoes out of the seaport and the gridlock that we are currently facing in Apapa is not making things easy. Now if you push and push cargoes to the other ports outside Lagos, the roads and the quality of the road to get to areas like Port Harcourt, to come back to the Mid-West and to where ever they are going, is still a challenge. That’s what I see. We still need to holistically focus on how to make things work. The country’s budget cycle has returned to the January-December cycle and the Finance Bill was assented to by the President, what’s the implication of this on businesses and the country in general? The first thing any business enterprise wants to see is that they can plan, when you have a predictable cycle, you can plan better. December you know you are winding down the year, so your finances too you’re closing it and in January you are starting the year. So the return of the budget cycle to January – December is a welcome development, it allows people to plan, I think the novel thing that have come with the budget for this year is the Finance Bill. That will also give some parameters to plan properly. You know what the government will support and will not support in the course of the year and you can plan better. I think it is a welcome development. Modern equipment in port terminal operation is very important, what is your assessment of the investment in modern equipment in the sector in the last few years? Well, cast your mind back to 2006 when ports reforms were gaining momentum, part of the problem at that time was inefficiency and those inefficiencies were occasioned by handling equipment that needed to be replaced constantly. The dwindling fortunes of the government had its’ toll on government’s ability to handle the equipment, to train people on the use of modern equipment and all that. When the public finance is constrained, all these are constrained too. But with the privatization of the port, each operator has to compete. It’s like a man with several wives, each of the wives have to look good for the man when he comes back in the evening.  Something like handling of equipment is key. Understanding the industry and the changing dynamics in that industry is key. So each port terminal operator is expected to understand and know the most current tools in the management of port. These equipment come in different forms and they form part of the competitive edges. So it’s key, it’s like blood in the life of a human being. So because the dwelling time is key to the liner to know how many days will their vessel stay for a terminal operator to be able to operate it – bring out what they have brought and load what they would be taking away, so all that depends on the efficiency of the equipment, so you cannot but continually invest to stay above water. As a major player in the maritime sector, as well as the country’s economy, what are the immediate and long-term goals of SIFAX Group? I tell you in one word, it is to continue to grow in leaps and bounds. That’s the SIFAX Group expectation and because we want to do that, we came up with a project that we call project Quantum Leap. Quantum Leap project expects us to grow at a particular percentage on an annual basis, we are very ambitious. So for us, we are going to invest massively in our people, in our equipment, in the industry and we would be contributing as a major stakeholder even to policy formulation. That can take us to that dream destination. So we have a huge expectation of the future and we are well prepared for it. Last year you talked about the volume of cargo throughput. Can you talk more about your cargo throughput last year? Last year, we did about 250,000 TEUs and our dream is to possibly double that this year. It’s a function of several things. It’s a function of the growth of the economy which is important. That is what informs those importing things to be able to bring in. The local factories are there, their confidence in the economy will boost their own output too. We believe we would be there for these activities we expect to go up as a major terminal for these cargoes to pass through. Tin Can where you have your terminal as a whole seems to be strained of vessel traffic. Though there are other ports, but this is seen majorly in Lagos, apart from the bad roads are there other factors contributing to this? I do not see reduced vessel traffic to our terminal I’m talking of Tin Can, not just your terminal… No, ok, Apapa and Tin Can? Yes, if you compare the two? I don’t know, I don’t have the statistics so I cannot be able to tell you whether one has higher volume. But increasingly in our terminal, we have been increasing the TEUs year-in-year-out, so I don’t know where that comes from. But whether I have a challenge: Yes I do, which if those challenges were not there perhaps I’d have doubled my volume last year. What are the challenges? There are some internal and there are some external. The ones that are internal are like whether we have issues with our staff which we don’t. We had in the past, but we’re very proactive, I don’t have any problem in the last few months or years. We are increasingly investing ahead of the tide. But external? Do I have a problem? Huge problem! Access to my terminal in Tin Can, everybody knows. If you coming in from Mile 2, I don’t know how many days it will take you to enter Tin Can, if you are coming from Apapa road to come through Creek road is a challenge, but it’s not peculiar to us. But we think the government is answering these questions by investing on the road. We only pray that government fast-track the reconstruction of the roads, so that access can be better, and that is what is causing the gridlock that you see on the road. Lately your company has delved into other countries and businesses, so far has it yielded positive results? Well, we will not in the first instance contemplated to enter if they were not going to yield result. But it doesn’t mean the first step you take is when you begin to see all the results. Though, we are quite positive and optimistic that they will add to our bottom-line. Particularly, you know within the country, we have invested in Ocean & Cargo which is the concessionaire of Warri Terminal B, and we believe that we are going to create a whole new economy in Warri. Warri port has suffered neglect over the years, we believe that we can take commercial vessels to that place. One major issue that we might have looks like the channel, maybe a major challenge in the interim because the breakwater is not there and even if you dredge it now and you don’t do the breakwater it might still be a challenge. We believe the government is attending to that, but in the meantime at whatever level we intend to start operation there while we work with the government to ensure they make it better. Is it possible that vessel traffic to Onne since January is about 107 or is that the cumulative  number from last year? It could be the cumulative number, or maybe several vessels queuing to enter because there’s limit that any terminal could have but that doesn’t take the shine off the fact that increasingly because of the frustration in Lagos ocean liners are calling more at Onne now. It’s a good thing because Lagos alone is not meant to absorb all the volume of traffic coming to Nigeria and the earlier we diversify anchorage the better for the country. So, yes it will take off some burden off Lagos and some business off Lagos. It’s likely to happen if the roads don’t get any better. And don’t forget with the closure of the border, many of the consignments that ordinarily would have come through land border are now being forced to come through the sea. So there is also an induced increase in the number of vessel calling on the Nigerian port. How would you describe the growth of SIFAX Group? Well, it’s a very ambitious growth and we are very excited about it. I am very optimistic of also achieving our target. We will get the result. Any last words? Well,  we are praying for this economy, because the more robust the Nigerian economy can be, the more productive we get, then the better the economy, the better the opportunity for the citizens, and for the government to realise its revenue target. I want my children to live in a better country, so if we get ourselves organised and the economy becomes very good, we will have an increasingly growing economy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 