Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja The military says it has  prepared 17 hospitals for the isolation and treatment of confirmed cases. The Coordinator of the Defence Media Operations, Major General  John Enenche, said at a   press conference in Abuja on Friday that  the military had finalised  plans to recall  retired medical personnel to complement those in  active service as the country battles the coronavirus pandemic. Our correspondent learnt that some of the hospitals on standby for the coronavirus pandemic are the Nigerian Air Force Hospital, Abuja; Kaduna Reference Hospital, Kaduna: Port Harcourt Military Hospital and the Lagos Military Hospital, Ikoyi, Lagos. Enenche said  apart from medical preparations, they had activated  their  Disaster Response Units to manage  the security situations in any part of the country as a result of  coronavirus. He said, “Sequel to the ongoing fight against the spread of coronavirus by the Federal Government, the armed forces  have put measures in place to aid the civil authorities. “Section 217 (2) C of the  1999 Constitution (as amended) empowers the military to act in aid of civil authority. “Consequently, a committee was constituted at the Defence Headquarters to ensure that the armed forces provide the necessary support  for  the Federal Government at this period. It is mainly a non-kinetic military operation with major features of civil-military cooperation activities. Equally, it is in line with the Chief of Defence Staff’s lines of conducting contemporary military operations in Nigeria. “In this regard, the armed forces  have  developed a two-pronged approach to fighting  the pandemic –  medical and security. “The medical approach is the deployment of military personnel in aid of all ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government through the provision of land, maritime and air assets, for transport of emergency cases and medical supplies, as was the case with the medical supplies donated by the Jack Ma Foundation. “Under the medical aid, we have 17 medical facilities spread across the country, which have been designated for isolation and treatment of confirmed cases of COVID-19. We have also concluded plans to recall our retired medical personnel to complement those in active service.” He  added that they would ensure that  there was no security breach during the period residents were forced to stay at home. Enenche  said, “On security-related support, the armed forces will activate its Disaster Response Units across the country in conjunction with  the National Emergency Management Agency. “These units will be responsible for the  security management of emergencies other than medicals. The Defence Headquarters hereby assures the general public of its total commitment to the human security effort of the Federal Government of Nigeria.” The DMO  also  said  troops would not halt the ongoing internal security operations because of  coronavirus. Enenche  said  they would not suspend the operations because they were trained to be alert and to keep a healthy distance. “The military cannot suspend its operations in the country, because operations are not conducted in enclosures. Operations are conducted in the open and naturally, even if we are going for encounters, we don’t fight in one enclosure. “Even when we burst camps, we maintain the distancing by our training. It is nothing close to one metre at all. Secondly, as the pandemic came up, we have sent to our units, barracks and theatres of operation on how to go about the precautionary measures. That and other sensitisations have been done,” Enenche said on Tuesday during an interview. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   