Afeez Hanafi A food processing company, Ayoola Foods Limited, has called for an increase in rice farming in Nigeria so as to bring about reduction in the price of the staple crop. The Managing Director of the firm, Mr Segun Olaye, stated that the quality of local rice had improved in recent times following the border closure, adding that it had been fully integrated into the company’s production. Olaye, who spoke on Wednesday during Ayoola Foods Limited Customers Forum 2020 in Lagos, noted that consumers had adjusted to the company’s products made from local rice. He said, “After the border closure, we had to look for an alternative. The local rice we had before was very dirty but now, it has improved and that is what we use now. Imported rice is whiter than the local one, but the local rice is more nutritious. “People have adjusted to it and we don’t have any complaints from customers again. Local rice was initially very expensive but it has stabilised now. I believe with more people going into farming, the price will come down by this time next year.” Olaye said the event was organised to appreciate distributors who met and surpassed the sales target of the firm in the previous year. Cash prizes and awards were presented to the distributors by the ambassadors of the firm, Idowu Philips (aka Mama Rainbow), Odunlade Adekola and Ali Nuhu (well known as Sarki Kannywood). Christopher Okeke of Amostate International, Benin City, emerged the outstanding distributor of the year while Nwachukwu Cosmos of Cossy Bros, Lagos and Paul Ossai of Palosi Ventures, were first and second runners-up respectively. Olaoye stated that the company remained focused and consistent despite the harsh economic situation of the country. He added, “Last year was a very tough year but we were able to scale through. We don’t expect anything easier this year but we have prepared for difficult periods. We have decided. We have this programme every year to appreciate our distributors and encourage them to perform better in the current year.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 