A former Financial Secretary of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State, Alhaji Kayode Adanla, speaks with WALE OYEWALE on the root of the party’s crisis in the state and the recent appointment of former governor Abiola Ajimobi as the Deputy National Chairman of the party APC in Oyo State is having some crisis. What is the genesis? Impunity is the genesis of the crisis in the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State. former Governor Abiola Ajimobi and the executive council members that are loyal to him are the problem of the party. They breached the party’s constitution and ran its affairs the way they liked. Their acts boil down to impunity. Why are many people against the nomination of former governor Abiola Ajimobi as the deputy national chairman of the party? There is no way that can fly if the national body of the APC wants the party to succeed in Oyo State and South-West in general. How can you say a failure can still be the party’s deputy national chairman? We are talking of a party that he destroyed single-handedly. He is a political liability. Abiola Ajimobi does not regard anybody as amounting to anything. He had destiny helpers that came to his aid to make him governor in 2011. Today, in Oyo State, he has rubbished everybody that helped him to realise his ambition. He wants to be an emperor. He has got what he wants; he believes he doesn’t want anybody again. Progressives are not like that. There are revered personalities who keep the party together from across the state. The elders, who are called gatekeepers, have been in politics since the days of Action Group and they are still alive. You cannot rubbish them; they are the establishments. Party faithful believe in them and they follow their steps because they are upright. They are comfortable when it comes to playing progressive politics. Can you mention some of these people in this regard? We have five local government councils in Ibadan, the state capital. We have Pa Busari Adebisi who is a scholar. He was a big attraction in the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria during Chief Obafemi Awolowo days. Abiola Ajimobi’s father was also one of them. Pa Adebisi played politics in those days with older Ajimobi. We have Chief T.O. Jolaoso (Ibarapa East) and Pa Sulaiman Ajibade, not Yekini (Saki West). These are some of the architects of Ajimobi’s governorship whom he maltreated and dumped. Others are Alhaji Fatai Ibikunle, a former PA to the governor; Alhaji Fatai Ayanyemi, former party Chairman, AD in Ibarapa North; Dr Ismael Adewusi, Lasun Adebunmi, former state secretary, and Chief Abolade Akinyemi, former state Treasurer, AD). People would wonder why you describe former governor Ajimobi who broke the jinx of ruling the state as governor for two terms as a failure? Is that a measure to judge him as a leader? That is not a factor. He did not make himself and he was not the one who made it happen. We members of the party were the ones that did that for him. Look at the percentage of votes during the second term; 32 or 33 and half total votes. That is not a good result for a progressive. Go and see the result of the late Lam Adesina and first term result of Abiola Ajimobi. People don’t like him; it was the establishment; the progressives that aided him to win the election. That was responsible for the result of the governorship election of 2019. He said those people were inconsequential. After that, what happened? Can you highlight other problems besetting the APC as a party, especially in Oyo State? The cause of the problem is imposition. Sometimes in 2018, we wanted to conduct local government election when Ajimobi was the governor. We held several meetings with him; I was one of the principal officers as the financial secretary of the party. I was there in the meetings. He agreed that we would do primary for all the applicants and whoever emerged would be the candidate for the council election in 2018. We agreed and sent a notice to Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission that we wanted to prepare for the primary. We sold forms to all the aspirants for councillorship and chairmanship positions. At the end of the day, we wanted to do primary but more than two or three times, we got all the materials and arranged everything but Ajimobi stopped the primary. He wanted to be the one to choose those to be councillors and chairmen. He insisted that we should not do the primary again. He said he would choose any candidate that he liked. Thereafter, he went to a hotel at Apata and single-handedly chose all chairmen and councillors at the detriment of party members who bought forms with their hard-earned money. Some people sold their property to buy the forms but at the end of the day, there was no compensation. That was the beginning of the problem and that was what led to the formation of Unity Forum. The forum wanted to call for justice. He told the former chairmen that he would compensate them after winning second term. But when he won the election, he deserted them. The active members came together with some excos and we started agitating; that was how the problem started. What you are saying is that Ajimobi is at the centre of the problems in the APC? Absolutely; he is. At what point did you return to the APC and what made you to return? When we finished the struggle in Unity Forum, some of those who wanted to contest went to ADC, while some went to ADB. At the end of the day, we pitched tent with Alao-Akala in ADP. After the presidential election, when we saw the result and they called Alao-Akala from Abuja that he should step down and come to the APC, that was how we came back. What must the APC do for peace to be restored into the party? If Bola Tinubu does not let Ajimobi go, there is no way we can have peace in the APC in Oyo State and there is no way we can win the state back. You spoke about allowing Ajimobi to go; where exactly do you mean he should go? To go out of the party; he should leave the party. I don’t know what Tinubu wants to use Ajimobi to achieve. Tinubu shows desperation maybe about his ambition because all what Tinubu is saying in his statement are deceits. He started Tinubu Movement since August 2019. We are not fools; we know what is going on. He now wrote (in his letter to the President, Major General Muhammdu Buhari (retd.), on the crisis in the national headquarters of the party), saying that some people are causing virus. Who started it? Tinubu is causing problems and he is giving Ajimobi power. How can you continue to empower a failure? See what Oshiomhole did; immediately he resumed at the party secretariat, he inaugurated Ajimobi as the Deputy Chairman. What kind of politics is that? If you call somebody a leader and he is behaving like this. I don’t accept him as a leader; he is a ceremonial leader. Do you see the APC in Oyo State mending its fences before the 2023 elections? Nothing is impossible, but I am a realist. With Ajimobi, there is no way we can make true reconciliation in Oyo APC. Ajimobi is so vindictive. So, he will use all it takes to destroy those of us who are not on his side. Are you afraid that if things continue like this, 2023 is not going to be hopeful for the party? We are not afraid because they brought him to us and he would leave us in this party. We are the owners of the party irrespective of what he had achieved. There is nothing he can do. We would wait just like we waited for eight years. He would exhaust all his cards and at the end of the day, he would be like Pharaoh. They asked Chief Bisi Akande to chair the reconciliation committee. He could not do anything. Chief Akande is Tinubu’s proxy, so he cannot do true reconciliation. Or, can Chief Akande tell Tinubu that he is wrong? He can never do that. People are already congratulating Ajimobi on his appointment as Deputy National Chairman of APC. Now, will you be ready to join hands with him for a successful tenure? What I can say on this is that I will take my time and watch how events unfold because I don’t think all is well within the National Working Committee of the APC over the appointment. Majority believes that his emergence was Asiwaju Tinubu’s making and many litigations are on the issue. When we get to the river, we shall know how to cross it. We don’t know why Tinubu wants to ride on a dead horse to get to his destination. Ajimobi has become a political liability in Oyo State and he cannot take the party back. As a sitting governor, he contested a seat in the Oyo south senatorial district but he lost. He could not win his ward not to talk of his local government. That is a big shame for any reasonable politician because it shows that the people have rejected him absolutely. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  