Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki A policeman, Sergeant Sebastine Alumona, has petitioned the management of the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki,  Ebonyi State, over the death of his daughter in the facility, six hours after she was admitted for treatment in the facility. The policeman alleged that his six-month-old daughter, Osinachi, died of negligence, professional misconduct and administration of wrong drugs to her. PUNCH Metro learnt that the girl died on February 4, 2020, at the hospital after allegedly being given wrong medication. In the petition, which was written on behalf of the cop by a firm of legal practitioners, C. A. Aiyamekhue & Co., a copy of which was obtained by PUNCH Metro, Alumona claimed that his daughter died 20 minutes after she was injected with 1,000mg of Mesporin by one Dr Okeke, a member of the medical team that managed her while on admission. According to the petition, the administration of the drug by the said doctor was a case of negligence and professional misconduct, as the first doctor, who handed over to Okeke, had warned that it should neither be bought by Osinachi’s parents nor be administered to her by anybody. The policeman maintained that he was emotionally and psychologically traumatised by the fact that the hospital had hidden his daughter’s corpse for over a month without releasing it to him for burial. According to him, the non-release of the corpse by the hospital management is an indication that it is aware of what led to her death, adding that the current situation had thrown the entire family into psychological disarray. He called for the arrest and prosecution of members of the medical team that managed his daughter while she was on admission namely: Dr Sunday Nweke, Dr Okeke, Dr Moffi and Dr Uzochukwu Ike. The policeman urged the management of the hospital not to tamper with the treatment records in the medical folder, which according to him, had disappeared with his daughter’s corpse. The petition read in part, “That it was not up to 20 minutes that Dr Okeke, with the assistance of Dr Moffi, had injected the one ampoule full dose of Mesporin-1000mg IV Ceftriaxone injection into the vein of our client’s child that the child’s condition changed as she started foaming in the mouth and saliva started gushing out from her mouth and her lips dried up, while she was gasping for breath. “That our client is the father of a six-month-old baby girl, Onyema Rosemary Osinachi Alumona, who died in your hospital, the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, on February 4, 2020, occasioned by the administration of excess dosage of wrong medication (intravenous injection of Mesporin-1000mg) prescribed by one Dr Okeke, a member of the medical team of Dr Sunday Nweke, a consultant paediatrician. “That notwithstanding the compassionate supplication of our client to Dr Nweke and his medical team to save his child, who had fallen victim of the administration of excess dosage of wrong medication by Dr Okeke, with the assistance of Dr Moffi, they remained callous, unconcerned and unsympathetic to attend to our client’s dying child till she breathed her last.” PUNCH Metro gathered that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Awosola Awotinde, intervened in the matter on February 5, 2020, and asked members of the medical team to write statements about what they knew about the incident. Investigation, however, revealed that members of the medical team did not heed the CP’s advice. Efforts to get the reaction of the Chief Medical Director of the AEFUTH, Dr Emeka Onwe-Ogah, on the matter were futile as of the time of filing this report. Calls put across to him by our correspondent were unanswered, while two text messages sent to his mobile telephone had yet to be responded to. Also, messages sent to the Public Relations Officer of the hospital, Mr Uzodinma Oji, were not replied as of the time of filing this report. He simply told our correspondent that he would get back to him when he was contacted on the telephone, but he had yet to do so after seven hours. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 