Olaleye Aluko, Daud Olatunji,Tony Okafor, Bola Bamigbola, Godwin Isenyo and Abiodun Nejo The National Youth Service Corps has said apart from the corps members,  high profile personalities, including governors were being subjected to screening across its orientation camps in the country as part of recommended measures to contain the coronavirus. The scheme noted that this is in addition to the provision of handwashing points with germ-killing liquid soaps and sanitisers at strategic points in all the orientation camps. In a release, the NYSC Director of Press and Public Relations, Mrs Adenike Adeyemi, said on Thursday that the Anambra State Governor, Willie Obiano, who presided over the swearing-in of the 2020 Batch A Corps members, went through the screening procedures as did the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare. Obiano had also gone to inaugurate the newly constructed Orientation Camp, in the Awka South Local Government Area of the state. Adeyemi said, “As part of recommended measures to contain the COVID-19, high profile personalities on visit to NYSC Orientation Camps are being subjected to screening along with corps members and other visitors before entry. “Apart from screening all the 2020 Batch A Stream one corps members in the 37 NYSC Orientation Camps in the country, sensitisation leaflets on Lassa fever and coronavirus have been distributed to arm them with the requisite information on the viruses and how to prevent infection.” In Osun State, the scheme said all 2,300 2020 Batch A corps members deployed to the state, as well as officials that would work with them were all tested before they were allowed into the camp. In the address of the commencement of the three weeks Orientation Course at the Permanent Orientation Camp, Ede on Thursday, state coordinator, Adewale Adegoke, explained that visitors to the camp were also being screened. According to him, all the 2,300 corps members deployed to the state comprising 1,100 males and 1,200 females commenced medical screening at the entrance of the camp on Sunday before they were allowed into the premises. Meanwhile, the scheme has faulted the call for the suspension of orientation camping over the outbreak of coronavirus in the country. The NYSC said it had taken proactive measures to guard against the contraction of the deadly virus by the corps members. Ogun State coordinator of the scheme, Dr Belinda Faniyi, stated this on Thursday, during the swearing-in of the 2020 batch ‘A’ stream 1 corps members deployed in the state held in Sagamu. Speaking on the proactive measures put in place  by NYSC against the contraction of the deadly virus , Faniyi said infrared thermometers ,hand sanitisers, wash-hands basins  and soaps have been provided at the NYSC Secretariat and strategic locations at the orientation camp. Faniyi said a workshop on prevention of coronavirus had been held before the orientation programme. The Director General of the scheme, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, on Thursday enjoined members of the corps not to panic over the disease. The DG gave stated this during the inauguration of the NYSC permanent orientation camp in Mbaukwu/Umuawulu in Awka North Local Government Area of Anambra State by the state governor, Willie Obiano. He said no case of coronavirus had been recorded amongst members of the corps in any part of the country. He said measures had been put in place, including partnership with the ministry of health and other relevant bodies to ensure no negative reports were recorded in  NYSC camps across the country. He said, “So far so good, from the reports I’ve received nationwide, we’ve not had any problem. There’s no cause for alarm. “As I came in here, everyone is subjected to check from the entrance to the camp. I was also subjected to the same procedure. The Chief Judge who is going to administer the oath is also subjected. This is done across all the camps nationwide.” He  urged them to be safety and security conscious and to avoid unnecessary travels throughout their service year. In Kaduna, 2000 members of the 2020 batch “A” corps were screened as they arrived the Black Gold orientation camp along Abuja – Kaduna expressway, in Kaduna State. The scheme mounted a check desk as part of measures to check for possible contraction of the pandemic. The corps coordinator in Ekiti State, Mrs Emmanuella Okpongete, said the NYSC and the state government were in partnership to protect corps members deployed to Ekiti from coronavirus. Okpongete assured the corps members and their families and friends not to entertain any fear as necessary measures had been put in place to ensure the virus could not infect them. She said, “There is no cause for alarm on the viral disease. Permit me to inform that following the outbreak of coronavirus, the NYSC scheme took a proactive measure to guard against the contraction of the deadly viral disease by corps members. “Accordingly, the scheme has been in constant touch with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, as well as the Federal Ministry of Health for technical support to the scheme. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  