Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Members of the National Youths Service Corps in Ekiti State have held a free medical outreach to members of the community of their primary assignment. The corps members, who are of the Medical Community Development Service Group in the Ekiti West Local Government Area, provided the free medical care to 189 residents of Erio Ekiti under the NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Development. NYSC State Coordinator, Mrs Emmanuella Okpongette, said, “The health initiative for rural dwellers is part of the community development activities executed by corps members to reach out to rural dwellers across the country positively”. Okpongette, who was represented at the free medical outreach by the NYSC Assistant Director, Community Development Service, Mr Anthony Anabui, lauded the corps members for the project, which she said was targetted at improving the health of the nation. The corps members, who sourced the drugs and equipment used for the outreach from well meaning and highly spirited individuals within and outside the host communities, as well support of the NYSC state coordinator, treated beneficiaries for ailments and conditions such as malaria, diabetes and high blood pressure free of charge. They also provided necessary drugs to the patients at no cost in addition to the sensitisation of a large audience about personal hygiene, among others. The Elerio of Erio Ekiti, Oba Johnson Ademola, who described the medical outreach as a huge success, said its impact on his community could not be quantitified. He said, “It was well organised and much appreciated, I will readily support more of this any time”. The Ekiti West Local Government Area Inspector of the NYSC, Mr H.B. Bolaji, while expressing satisfaction with the medical intervention, appealed to well-meaning Nigerians to support the outreach to sustain it. Bolaji said, “The number of beneficiaries can definitely be raised if we can get more support from the general public The more the support we get, the more the number of lives we can touch.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    