Rasheed Bisiriyu Mercedes-Benz has released a new E-Class after the vehicle has undergone a significant facelift. It was originally scheduled to debut at the Geneva Motor Show before the show was cancelled due to the fears of coronavirus.  The latest E-Class model has surfaced online. Details of its changes are seen in the car’s redesigned exterior, a revamped powertrain line-up and new equipment. A report by Paul Tan’s Automotive News, the noticeable changes in the new car after much teasing by the German automaker are rather comprehensive to say the least. It is expected to be made available in sedan and wagon (Estate and All-Terrain) body styles initially when it is finally released to the market for sale. “These will be joined by coupe and cabriolet models in the future, along with a long-wheelbase sedan version,” paultan.org says. Exterior The report says, “At first glance, you won’t confuse the new model for the older one, as the entire front end of the E-Class has been overhauled. Primary changes include a new front grille that is now slimmer than before. “The new nose is accompanied by smaller and more angular headlamps, which come as full-LED units as standard that can be upgraded to multi-beam items (with Ultra Range high beam). They also sport an L-shaped daytime running light signature that is more in line with the automaker’s latest design language seen on more recent models such as the C118 CLA and C257 CLS.” It also says a look at the rear of the vehicle will show the vertical-oriented taillights have been replaced with wider, two-piece clusters that extend into a new boot lid, each with a diode-like light signature within. Other exterior styling packages available include the Avantgarde Line, Exclusive Line and AMG Line. The Avantgarde Line is said to come as standard on entry-level variants of the E-Class, and it includes two chrome louvres and vertical high-gloss black struts on the hexagonal-shaped grille, along with a wide-width lower apron. The Exclusive Line has a triple-louvre configuration, large chrome elements in the bumper and a more traditional Mercedes-Benz badge on the bonnet. The AMG Line is noted as the most aggressive-looking option, with an A-wing design for the front bumper that is accompanied by large ‘inlets’. “It also comes with its own trapezoidal-shaped, diamond grille highlighted by a single louvre that runs through the large Mercedes-Benz logo, paultan.org states. The E-Class is offered in X213 all-terrain specification, which adopts styling cues from Mercedes-Benz’s SUV range such as a taller ride height and black body cladding along the lower edges of the bodywork. The radiator grille and skid plate is said to come with a mirror chrome finish rather than the previous silver shadow hue. Interior Although its interior changes are reportedly not as profound as the exterior, one of the new items is the Mercedes-Benz User Experience infotainment system. “This is linked to the dual-screen setup on the dashboard, which now comes as standard with two 10.25-inch displays or the optional Widescreen cockpit featuring 12.3-inch displays. “The screens can be configured in four different styles – Modern Classic, Sport, Progressive and Discreet,” the report says. The latest model also has new steering wheel designs (depending on the styling package) with capacitive Touch Control buttons, new upholstery options, energising seat kinetics and comfort control (with energizing coach and PowerNap) and Urban Guard vehicle protection systems. Safety According to a review by motor1.com, the E-Class adopts Mercedes-Benz’s latest active safety equipment. “Equipment such as a new steering wheel with hands-off detection, adaptive cruise control with stop-and-go, active steering assist, automatic emergency braking, active blind-spot assist, and a 360-degree camera with a newly expanded side view monitor make their way to the E-Class for the first time,” it states Paul Tan Automotive News lists the safety measures as standard Active Brake Assist and the optional driving assistance package such as Active Stop-and-Go Assist, Active Steering Assist (with emergency corridor function), Active Blind Spot Assist and Active Parking Assist with Parktronic. Engine Motor 1 provides a comprehensive report on the car’s new engine as it notes that the E450 model has dropped its old twin-turbo V6 for Benz’s latest turbocharged 3.0-litre inline-six engine with EQ Boost. “Power stays put at 362 horsepower (269 kilowatts) and 369 pound-feet (500 Newton-metres), as it does in the E53 AMG. “With the same inline-six, the E53 AMG produces 429hp (320kW) and 384 lb-ft (520Nm) as it did last year. The base E350 rear-wheel-drive and E350 4Matic models, meanwhile, use a turbocharged inline-four engine good for 255hp (190kW) and 273 lb-ft (370Nm).” It says for the first time, the Mercedes-Benz E-Class is coming with a plug-in hybrid option. “Dubbed the E350e (confusing), the electrified E-Class pairs a 2.0-litre inline-four engine with a 90-kilowatt-hour electric motor. “Total output for the powertrain is 315 combined horsepower (234kW) and 516 lb-ft (700 Nm) of torque, but the electric motor on its own is capable of 121hp (90kW) and 325 lb-ft (440Nm). Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  