Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Real estate development firm, Brains and Hammers Limited, says it has launched its biggest private residential estate in the country. According to the firm, built on 107 hectares of land in the Life Camp Extension area of Abuja, the housing development comprises 3,400 units of different house types and is known as Brains and Hammers City. Describing the estate as an amazing spectacle to residents of Abuja who used to know the area as a difficult topography of dense forest and rock, the firm said it was a major revolutionary achievement since it began operations 10 years ago. The firm noted that the transformation on the landscape had inspired many to call the estate, ‘A city out of nowhere.’ “Previously, the major landmark in that neighbourhood was Stella Maris College, but with the completion of Phase 1 on 27 hectares featuring 1,300 units, with 700 fully completed and delivered, Brains and Hammers City has become the reference milestone,” the firm said in a statement. The Chairman, Brains and Hammers, Mr Adebola Sheidu, was quoted as saying residents were guaranteed round-the-clock security and electricity, 24-hour help desk, 24 hour security and CCTV monitoring, dedicated transformers, 7.2 kilometres access road, fully  independent water supply and water treatment facilities among other amenities. Sheidu said the firm opened up the district by constructing a dual carriage way of seven kilometres with complete solar street lights and roundabouts leading to the estate. He said, “We have a dedicated unit for landscaping. The service charge is very minimal. We provided a gated community where children can go out of their house, play with their neighbours, ride bicycles and engage in all kinds of fun games. “There is a club house, swimming pool and tennis court. The 24-hour service line is dedicated to reach facility managers with complaints on routine electrical, carpentry and plumbing services. House owners at the different Brains and Hammers estates enjoy the benefit of skilled resident artisans who respond quickly to fix technical problems.” Brains and Hammers said it had a portfolio of over 5,000 completed residential homes across the country and ongoing work in over 10,000 more. It added that its current development portfolio comprised residential projects within Lagos and Abuja with sites in Galadima, Gwarimpa, Apo 1, Apo 11, Apo 111, Apo IV, Apo V, all in Abuja; and Ijora and along the Lekki corridor in Lagos. The firm said the development of the 3,400-unit Brains and Hammers City in LifeCamp, Abuja was its most ambitious project to date. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com