Nike Popoola Tangerine Life Insurance Limited (formerly known as Metropolitan Life Insurance Nigeria Limited) says it has acquired a majority stake in ARM Life Insurance Plc. A statement said this acquisition, which took effect from March 2, 2020, placed Tangerine Life as one of the largest life insurance providers in Nigeria. Speaking on the acquisition, the Managing Director, Tangerine Life, Livingstone Magorimbo, said, “The landscape of the insurance industry is evolving very quickly. “At Tangerine Life, we have made a decision to ensure that we are always at the forefront of innovation within the industry. As part of that innovation strategy, we have found collaboration to be a key instrument in ensuring that we build and maintain a sturdy, profitable business.” He added, “The acquisition will provide a perfect springboard for Tangerine Life to utilise the distinct strengths that ARM Life brings to bare, thereby strengthening the insurance services provided by Tangerine Life to create and deliver better value.” ARM Life Insurance Plc is a leading provider of life insurance services in Nigeria, with strong focus on retail and annuity- based products, it stated. As a member of the ARM Group, the company utilised the group’s global network to create a robust portfolio of clients under management. The Managing Director at ARM Life Plc, Stephen Alangbo, stated, “Innovation is paramount in ensuring customer satisfaction in today’s business landscape and we are keen to ensure that our customers receive the best at all touchpoints. We believe that this acquisition will ensure exceptional value creation for our customers and partners alike.” Presenting strong opportunities for value creation in the insurance industry, the statement said the aim of the acquisition was to combine the strengths of industry doyens, Tangerine Life and that of ARM Life. It stated that the collaboration would place Tangerine Life firmly as the fourth largest life insurance business in the Nigerian market in terms of revenue. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   