Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi The confirmed positive case of the coronavirus disease has increased to two in Bauchi State, the government has disclosed. Speaking at a press conference on Thursday evening at the Ministry of Health in Bauchi, the Commissioner, Dr. Aliyu Maigoro, said the second case was confirmed about two hours ago. Several efforts by journalists for him to reveal the identity of the said victim failed as he said he will not disclose it saying it was unethical. He however said he is a 62 year old and friend of the Governor held who had close contact with him. He said: “As at this time, we have taken 48 samples of high risk patients to Abuja i.e from day one when the first index case was confirmed, out of result, as at today, there are two confirmed positive cases of COVID-19 in Bauchi state. And out of this number, seven returned negative we are still waiting for the result of 9 samples, so far, there is no record of any death in the state. “The first index case (Governor Mohammed) is recovering fast and is doing extremely fine and up to this moment, there is no sign or symptoms  of COVID-19 except the confirmatory result. He is still in isolation and we are following the case management of this patient. “The second case who is 62 years old is a friend to the first victim (Governor Mohammed), is also being isolated, he has already stated receiving management as well as any other supportive case management. Apart from that, we are continuing with our other activities of surveillance and contact tracing. “We’re are tracing the primary contacts of the first case and we have taken their samples to Abuja to know their situation. We have started contacting the contacts of this second case and we are also going to take their samples based on the createria   for analysis. Maigoro who said that only two cases are on admission, explained that three centers are being made ready to hold the patients. According to him, the Bayara General Hospital, the State Specialist Hospital and the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi, will be used adding that “If there is any other case, we are going to take the to any of these places to continue their management.” The Commissioner therefore appealed to individuals,  partners, corporate bodies and Non-Governmental Organizations to assist the state government with the required machines for the treatment of the disease which “are highly sophisticated and cannot be gotten in this area.” Also speaking, the Executive Chairman of the Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Rilwan Mohammed, said the second case also has secondary cases stating that “we don’t know how many people he has come in contact with.” Mohammed said that: “We want people to know that the state government is fully prepared to handle these cases in Bauchi state. the Commissioner of Health, the Chairman of the Task Force who is the Deputy Governor are not sleeping, we are actually not sleeping on this matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   