Olusola Fabiyi, Jesusegun Alagbe and Nasir Tukur Following his dethronement, Mallam Lamido Sanusi has mocked the Kano State Government for the poor manner in which his deposition letter was written. Sanusi said going by the way in which the letter was written, it was easy for him to challenge his removal in court. He also criticised the state government for not giving him fair hearing prior to his dethronement. However, Sanusi said he was going to move on and did not want to return as Emir, saying he did all he could while he was the Emir of Kano for six years. In a 45-second video clip that went viral on social media on Saturday, Sanusi said, “I have done what I could in six years, I’m moving on. I don’t want to go back. The truth is, if I had wanted to go back, the dethronement letter was so badly written, it was not done professionally. The easiest thing is just to go to court.” “It’s simple… fair hearing. ’Did you query him? Did you ask him to defend himself? Did you even call him to ask him any question?’ No. That’s all but I think we should go on to a new phase in life,” Sanusi added. Sanusi, who once headed the Central Bank for five years, became the 14th Emir of Kano in June 2014, following the death of his great uncle, Ado Bayero. However, the 58-year-old was dethroned last Monday by the Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, over “total disrespect for lawful instructions from the office of the state government.” According to a statement by the Secretary to the Kano State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, the removal of  Sanusi, whose grandfather, Muhammadu Sanusi I, was deposed in 1963, was unanimously approved by the state executive council. Reading the statement, which conveyed the dethronement of Sanusi, the Secretary to the State Government stated that the Emir was dethroned for “total disrespect to lawful instructions from the office of the state Governor and other lawful authorities, including his persistent refusal to attend official meetings and programmes organised by the government without any lawful justification which amount to total insubordination.” The SSG further alleged that Sanusi breached Part 3 Section 13 (a-e) of the Kano State Emirate Law 2019, adding that if left unchecked, the deposed monarch would “destroy the good and established image of the Kano Emirate.” The statement added, “This removal is made after due consultations with the relevant stakeholders and in compliance with Part 3 Section 13 of the Kano State Emirate Law 2019 and other reasons stated above. READ ALSO: Sanusi felt he owed allegiance to Kwankwaso, not Ganduje –Yakasai “This removal was reached in order to safeguard the sanctity, culture, tradition, religion and prestige of the Kano Emirate built over a thousand years.” About six hours after Sanusi’s deposition, the state government announced a new Emir, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, a son of the 13th Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero, who died in 2014. The SSG said Aminu Ado Bayero’s appointment as the 15th Emir followed the recommendation received by Ganduje from the kingmakers. The new Emir is also from the same Fulani dynasty as Sanusi. Meanwhile, after his dethronement, Sanusi was driven to the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, from where he was taken to Nasarawa State, where he was banished to. The deposed Emir was first taken to Loko, then Awe, both in Nasarawa State. However, the former Emir’s lawyers on Friday secured a court order granting him freedom from illegal detention. After the development, the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, who is believed to be a close friend of the deposed Emir, travelled to Awe to visit Sanusi. The duo later left Awe for Abuja. Hours later, Sanusi left Abuja for Lagos. El-Rufai, Bakare visit deposed emir in Lagos Meanwhile, Kaduna State Governor, El-Rufai and the Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Pastor Tunde Bakare, were among a few people that visited the deposed emir in Lagos on Saturday. El-Rufai posted the pictures of the visit on his verified twitter handle, @Govkaduna. He wrote, “After the presentation of These Times, Mallam @elrufai and Pastor Tunde Bakare led a team to visit HH Muhammadu Sanusi 11who arrived Lagos last night(Friday). Traditional rulers must accept governors as superiors –Yakasai In the meantime, an elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, says Sanusi’s dethronement should serve as a lesson to all Emirs and other traditional leaders to accept and respect the governors in their respective states as their superiors. Yakasai, who was Special Adviser on National Assembly Matters to a former President, the late Alhaji Shehu Shagari, said many traditional rulers found it difficult to reconcile with and respect the government of the day, hence the reason they always found themselves in trouble. “There is a problem that I have observed. It has been happening on many occasions and it is that traditional rulers find it difficult to be under the supremacy of the government of the day,” Yakasai said in an interview with one of our correspondents. The elder statesman, however, blamed the media for Sanusi’s crisis, saying the media persistently published the deposed emir’s utterances. He said, “I have my opinion and the media should bear the blame. You overblew the utterances of the former emir such that he was talking. “A large number of traditional rulers that we have don’t like to talk much. They speak less because in talking too much, you are bound to say something that will not be pleasing to some people.” Yakasai, therefore, advised traditional rulers to continue with the tradition of talking less so as not to be misunderstood or misrepresented in their opinions. “Everybody has to make sacrifices at one time or the other. The man who accepted to be a traditional ruler has to sacrifice to talk less. Yes, he has the right to speak but he should choose to speak less because that will be better. “The dethronement was an unfortunate event but it has happened on many occasions before,” Yakasai said. Sanusi to take up el-Rufai, Fayemi’s appointments Following his deposition, sources close to Sanusi said he had decided to take up the three appointments he received from both el-Rufai and the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: As Emir Muhammadu Sanusi exits Less than 48 hours after his dethronement, el-Rufai had appointed Sanusi as the Chancellor of the Kaduna State University. A statement by el-Rufai’s Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Mr Muyiwa Adekeye, said the dethroned Emir succeeded the pioneer Chancellor of KASU, His Highness, Mallam Tagwai Sambo, the Chief of Moro’a in southern Kaduna. Earlier, the Kaduna State Governor had named Sanusi as the Vice-Chairman of the Kaduna State Investment and Promotion Agency. Thus, Sanusi got two appointments from the Kaduna State Governor. El-Rufai said the Kaduna State Government was grateful that Sanusi would support the realisation of the governance objectives of the state government. Similarly, the Ekiti State Government said it would retain the appointment of the deposed Kano Emir as the Chancellor of the Ekiti State University. The institution’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Eddy Olanipekun, in a letter dated March 12, 2020 and addressed to the former emir said the university would continue to recognise Sanusi as the chancellor despite his dethronement. The state governor, Fayemi, had appointed the deposed emir as the Chancellor of EKSU in 2019. A source who spoke to Sunday PUNCH said Sanusi, who arrived in Lagos on Friday night and checked in to a popular hotel on the Island, would take up the three appointments. It was learnt that the deposed emir would move to his residence, which is also located on the Island, at a later date. The former CBN governor, according to investigations, had been advised to also keep a low profile. The source said, “Emir Sanusi is relaxing at a hotel on Lagos Island. He has yet to move into his house. He is going to take up the three appointments. Both el-Rufai and Fayemi are his friends. That is why he will never turn down the appointments. “Thank God, none of the appointments is full-time. He will also not abandon his friends who have stood by him during his travail.” It was also gathered that none of the family members of the deposed emir complained about the action of the Kano State Government. “I think what worried them was the banishment of their father. Now that he is a free man, they are not worried anymore. What they wanted was freedom for him and they already have it. “They are happy seeing their father, husband, uncle, cousin and breadwinner at home,’’ the source said. Sanusi’s uncle calls for peace, unity in Kano Emirate Meanwhile, an elder statesman in Kano and uncle to Sanusi, Alhaji Bello Isah Bayero, has advised the new Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, to be fair to all people irrespective of their lineage for the sustenance of peace and unity in the emirate. Bayero in an interview with one of our correspondents said the call was necessary in order to enable the new Emir to discharge his duties effectively and with the support of all family members. He said, “Both the former Emir and the new Emir are from the same root. So we expect nothing from the new Emir but patience with the people. If there is patience, everything will go smoothly. READ ALSO: Presidency had a hand in dethronement, banishment of Sanusi – Adegboruwa “What happened in the state should be a lesson to all people as it is only God that gives power to whoever he so wishes and he takes it from whoever he so wishes. “When the former Emir was appointed, nobody expected it and likewise when the new Emir was appointed, nobody expected it but all that happened was the will of God. “We hope the deposed Emir will consider what happened to him as a will of God as he said in his farewell speech while the new Emir should ensure fairness to all during his reign.” Bayero advised those who felt offended as a result of Sanusi’s dethronement to forget and forgive in order to move the Kano Emirate forward and to ensure the economic growth and development of the state. The elder statesman urged the people of Kano State to give the new Emir all the necessary support and cooperation to ensure the success of his reign. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 