Alexander Okere The late proprietor of Bethlehem Girls’ College, Rev Sis Henrietta Alokha, who died in the explosion that rocked Abule-Ado in the Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos State, has been buried. The late Alokha, who was a member of the Sisters of the Sacred Heart, was buried at the cemetery of the Sacred Heart Convent, Uromi, in the Esan North-East Local Government Area of Edo State, on Thursday. At least 23 persons were killed in the explosion that also destroyed houses, and left many residents displaced on March 15. Alokha was reported to have died while rescuing pupils of the school trapped in the building when the disaster occurred during a mass. It was learnt that the burial was restricted to few individuals in line with the directive of the Edo State Government on social distancing to curb the spread of coronavirus. It was, however, gathered that the wake and interment were live-streamed to allow friends and sympathisers to participate online and send condolences. Those in attendance at the ceremony were the siblings of the deceased, the Archbishop of Benin and President of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria, Most Rev. Augustine Akubeze; Bishop of Uromi, Most Rev Donatus Ogun; Bishop of Auchi, Most Rev Gabriel Dunia, reverend sisters and other priests. The Mother Superior of the convent, Rev Sr. Monica Rowland, told our correspondent on Friday that the deceased would be honoured after the lifting of restriction occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic. “She was buried yesterday (Thursday) at our cemetery in Uromi. Because of coronavirus, people couldn’t come. There is a restriction in Edo State, so it’s difficult to have a crowd. “It was just priests, (reverend) sisters and the immediate family members – the siblings; her extended family members were not allowed to come,” Rowland stated.” She added, “We will still honour her. It will be a ceremony; the highest ceremony in the Catholic Church is the Mass and that is the highest honour you can give anybody. “The public will be invited and we will honour her. But as it is now with coronavirus, we can’t disobey the government’s instruction.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  