Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Lagos Bus Services Limited has made it mandatory for all its passengers to use hand sanitisers and have their temperatures checked in all its stations in a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus. Managing Director/Chief Executive of the firm, Idowu Oguntona, disclosed this after a commemorative bus ride with the 10-millionth passenger of the company from the Ojodu-Berger Terminus to Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos. He also announced that the firm had successfully transported 10 million Nigerians in 10 months of its operations, according to a statement from the firm. He said, “As we speak now, the use of sanitizer in all our stations is now compulsory. This is in addition to the provision of thermometers that are already deployed across our stations to check passengers’ temperature before they board our buses. “This is in order to contain the spread of the virus and ensure that users of the LBSL are safe and protected. Apart from this, we have educated our staff and we are extending the same information and sensitisation to users of our buses on how to be safe on our buses. “We ensure our buses are cleaned properly and disinfected regularly and we advocate general personal and environmental hygiene for everyone.” The firm also stated that the 10-millionth commuter, Uwuadileke Chinedu, was identified before the trip commenced and was given a one-month free bus pass at the commemorative ceremony at the bus terminus. Oguntona, who was accompanied by senior management staff of the LBSL, some commuters and guests during the trip, gave the company’s scorecard and assured stakeholders that its best was yet to come. He further assured commuters using the Lagos Bus Services of its commitment to excellence by moving them to their destinations timely, conveniently and comfortably. Oguntona assured Nigerians that the company’s long-term goal was to help in making Lagos a liveable city where most car owners would not see the need to put their cars on the road during business hours, as they could count on the LBSL to transport them to their desired destinations. He said, “As part of our efforts to facilitate intermodal transportation in Lagos State, we collaborate with LagFerry to ensure seamless movement of people, and we are ready to work with other sister organisations to ensure that the Sanwo-Olu administration’s blueprints for the transport sector are realised. “The greater Lagos we envisage with the governor is a smart city where a resident can get of home, ride on our bus, get on a ferry, link a train and still return home in a bus, all in a day’s journey. It is no longer a dream without a date. It is now a realisable goal in our life time.” Oguntona said the company had been growing organically, increased its fleet from 50 buses in May 2019 to 150 high-capacity buses by December 2019 as part of efforts to improve public transportation in Lagos State. He said additional 65 high-capacity buses were deployed and seven new major routes opened in February for the use of commuters affected by the restriction order placed on motorcycles and tricycles in some parts of Lagos. According to Oguntona, the LBSL transports 80,000 passengers daily on its 15 routes and has been able to achieve the significant feat of effectively transporting 10 million passengers in 10 months since 2019 while creating jobs for hundreds of people. He also disclosed that plans were afoot to introduce more high capacity and mini buses into the company’s fleet to serve more commuters across the state. “We have created jobs for over 700 Lagosians, with about 87 per cent of the staff being bus captains, operations staff and technical staff. We have also empowered Lagosians with employment through our driving school that successfully produced 1,969 certified high-capacity bus drivers in 2019,” he said. The LBSL boss thanked the state government for its support and expressed the LBSL’s readiness to collaborate with more public agencies to address the public transport needs of Lagosians. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  