’Femi Asu The inappropriate pricing, paucity of infrastructure and non-existence of a regulating agency have been identified as major factors hampering investments into the nation’s Compressed Natural Gas subsector. The Managing Director, Nipco Gas Limited, Sanjay Teotia, lamented that Nigeria had not maximised the benefits of the CNG despite the enormous natural gas reserves in the country. He said the lack of access to land was also limiting the development of the CNG in the country. He spoke during a media tour of some of Nipco’s facilities in Benin City, the Edo State capital, according to a statement signed by the Assistant General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Nipco, Lawal Taofeek. He said CNG was being used as vehicular fuel because of its profitability and environmental friendliness Teotia said the country would continue to miss out on the benefits of the CNG if the challenges were not resolved. He, however, lauded the Federal Government’s National Gas Expansion Programme Committee, which was recently inaugurated by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Silva, to steer the gas sector for optimal performance. He described the establishment of the committee as a clear indication of the genuine resolve of the government to tackle the challenges bedevilling the industry and pave the way for better utilisation of the nation’s massive gas resources in the overall interest of all stakeholders. According to Teotia, the company, which got its licence to operate in 2007, has seven gas stations in Benin, with other stations in Lagos and Delta states. He said Nipco had laid 51 kilometres of gas pipeline in Benin to distribute the CNG to the seven stations in the city. He said, “Currently, we have converted no fewer than 5,000 vehicles from petrol and diesel to the CNG, and now distribute the product to few eateries in the city. We have the capacity to dispense 500 standard cubic metres and dispense to no fewer than 20,000 vehicles here. “The sector has the potential to provide numerous job opportunities and create a lot of economy potential for the country once the government provides the necessary framework to enhance its growth.” He added, “For once, there must be appropriate pricing of gas to allow for affordability and the issue of land must be addressed as well. State governments can encourage investment in the sector by giving land at a reduced rate.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  