Temiloluwa O’Peters The Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers, Lagos State branch has said it will conduct a study of Lagos pipeline areas to help provide a solution to fire hazards. The institution made this known when its chairman, Mr Adedotun Bamigbola, and other members met the state Commissioner for Environment, Mr Tunji Bello, over the 240-day rainfall predicted for the state by the Nigerian Metrological Agency and the incidents of explosions and fire hazard along the pipeline corridors. He informed the ministry that NIESV would carry out a technical study of pipeline areas in the state through the research and development subcommittee and present a report to help solve the problem. Bamigbola asked for the ministry’s support, adding that the branch was ready to partner the ministry in anticipation of the 240-day rainfall predicted by reaching out to property owners and occupiers through over 6,000 members in all cadres of the institution. The team was received by the Permanent Secretary, Environmental Services, Mrs Belinda Odeneye, and the Permanent Secretary, Drainage Service and Water Resources, Mr Nurudeen Sodeinde, as well as other directors in the ministry. Odeneye expressed appreciation to the team for the visit and commended the branch for the proactive initiative. She said she was delighted that a professional body (NIESV) would be conducting the study, adding that the government would always need support from the professionals. On his part, Sodeinde said most of the problems encountered by the ministry and government in flood management emanated from people’s attitude to laws guiding the use of the environment. He also requested a proposal for the collaboration on awareness campaign on environmental management solutions from the branch. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  