Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Federal Capital Territory Police Command has deployed some officers  to guard some retired Deputy Inspectors-General of Police and Commissioners of Police. A former DIG in charge of Information and Communication Technology was given four police aides while a retired CP living in a top luxury hotel in Wuse, Abuja, has three police Inspectors attached to him. A former CP in charge of works and some private individuals also have  a police inspector each  attached to them. The deployment was contained in a daily order with reference AB: 4087/FCT/DOPS/VOL.8/198 dated March 5 issued by the Administration Officer 1, Department of Operations, FCT Police Command, SP Solomon Adebayo. Also,  five policemen were deployed in  the judges’ quarters in Gwarimpa. According to a  retired CP, Abubakar Tsav, he has been enjoying the privilege as he has an orderly, driver and a cook attached to him. He said, “When you retire as a CP, you are supposed to have it. What about politicians that give security officers to their wives and even their children? “When we were doing our work, we infringed on the rights of many people; many people do not like us. If these people have the opportunity, they may eliminate us, so it is essential that we have the security.” But a security analyst, Ben Okezie, decried the number of officers attached to  retired officers, saying  the number  should be reduced in view of the security challenges facing the nation. Okezie  said  police  should be protecting the public  rather than  a few individuals. He said, “How come they do not do that in other countries? Once you retire, you are given some entitlement, you are given an orderly but to have a driver, orderly and cook or gardener is not right. This should be corrected because it is taxpayers’  money that is funding them. You can’t use public resources to serve private individuals.” According to a  Strategic Security and Intelligence Specialist, Kabir Adamu, the protection of retired  officers is based on tradition. But he contended that the practice was not sustainable because of  the security crisis facing the country. He  said, “I’m of the opinion that improving  general security is better and in the long run would be more productive. “Given the fact that the police are stretched, the continuation of that deployment is not feasible. The authorities should look at ways of improving security generally, so the need to deploy security around them (retired officers) would be reduced.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 