Siemens Nigeria has reiterated its commitment to remain a strong partner to drive sustainable development in the country. This, it said, was in support of the Federal Government’s commitment to restore growth, invest in people and build a globally competitive economy. The Chief Executive Officer, Siemens Nigeria, Onyeche Tifase, who disclosed this in statement, said since its entry into the Nigerian market 50 years ago, the company had leveraged its deep heritage and expertise to impact Nigeria. Tifase said such impact was achieved through various partnerships and initiatives focused on creating societal, economic and environmental contributions in driving economic growth. Speaking on the company’s commitment to drive real value in Nigeria, Tifase said, “At Siemens, we fundamentally believe that demonstrating commitment to the communities in which we work is core to the success of our business. Throughout our almost 50-year journey in Nigeria, we are proud to be drivers of initiatives that matter to Nigeria by developing local jobs, skills, electrification, oil and gas, industrialisation and education; essentially, the social and economic growth and development of the country.” “The Siemens Stiftung Experimento programme is one major way we have our footprint in Nigeria by supporting the government’s goal of improving STEM-focused curriculum for primary and secondary school students.” The CEO noted that the company had trained teachers and educators, through the ‘train the trainer’ programme, while over 600 students from 10 schools in Lagos had benefited from the initiative. “In addition to this, we have donated digital factory equipment  worth about $11,700 to the Electrical Engineering department of the University of Lagos with about 120 students benefitting from the donation. We also have a long-standing commitment to address the need for local technical support in Nigeria’s industries by providing innovative equipment, deploying technology and offering aftermarket service. “With our in-country service workshop in Port Harcourt, we have contributed greatly to the maintenance of infrastructure in industries by providing quicker and efficient solutions to customers who ordinarily may have looked overseas for solutions. “In the power sector, we continue to work towards providing an end to end solution to the power challenges in Nigeria through innovative solutions and partnerships with the public and private sector.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    