Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Another group of traditional worshippers under the aegis of the Osugbo Remo-In-Council has protested against the plan by the Ogun State House of Assembly to pass a bill on the rites of burial of traditional rulers in the state. The group on Wednesday described the proposed bill before the House of Assembly concerning traditional rulers’ installation and burial rites as a deliberate act to tamper with the norms and beliefs of the Yoruba cultural heritage. A traditional worshippers’ group had on Tuesday kicked against the proposed bill and called on the Assembly to halt its passage. Also, the Osugbo Remo-In-council held an event in Sagamu and issued a communique which was jointly signed by the Chairman of Osugbo, High Chief Taiwo Sule; the Vice-Chairman, Ifasola Opeodu; the Chairman, Committee on Special Duty, Micheal Sorinola; and the Secretary, Johnson Adeokun. The Osugbo Remo-In-Council raised concern that the passage of the bill might lead to a religious war. Speaking on behalf of the council, Adeokun maintained that the proposed bill was an infringement on the rights of the traditional worshippers. He added, “The proposed bill which is calling on Muslims and Christians to perform the burial rites of an oba will constitute an infringement on the rights of the traditional worshippers and promote war, chaos and pandemonium. “Anybody who voluntarily gives himself  out or permits or volunteers himself to be crowned and installed as a king under the Yoruba culture will immediately attain the position of Alase Ekeji Orisa, having agreed,  accepted  and concurred to fall in line and abide by the rules, regulations, doctrines and practices of such traditions. “Such a person cannot be heard to be complaining thereafter, especially after such a person had completely enjoyed the water in the jug, just like the Awujale and other obas in Ogun State are doing. “The attempt by the obas and the Ogun State House of Assembly to direct Muslims or Christians to bury the corpses of traditional rulers who are under the traditional institution will lead to chaos, pandemonium and a state of anarchy.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 