Tola Dehinde For quite a while now, people contact me via email, telling me about their devastating experience due to incorrect genotype diagnosis. I have also read on various sickle cell online forums about how their parents thought they were both AAs and only one had the sickle cell trait, AS and yet, the couple gave birth to a child or children with SS or SC. Some people find out their child has sickle cell disease when the child starts falling ill a lot and they go to the hospital for a blood test.  Some find out when they need to put their child on their employer’s insurance and the child has to do a blood test. The thing is no matter how the parents find out especially due to sham blood tests at laboratories, it is time that something gets done about it.  This situation is becoming preposterous in terms of the heart ache this is causing a lot of families in Africa. According to www.study.com, blood type is determined by our genes.  Genes are segments of DNA; that code for specific traits.  Different versions of genes are called alleles.  When determining something such as blood type, individuals receive one allele from their biological mother and another allele from their biological father.  It is the combination of the allele that creates the gene for blood type.  This combination of alleles is called genotype. The reason why knowing one’s blood genotype is important is to help avert the continuation of SCD.  SC anemia is an inherited red blood cell disorder where there are not enough healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen throughout your body.  Normally, the flexible, round red blood cells move easily through blood vessels.  In SC anemia, the red blood is shaped like sickles or crescent moons.  These rigid, sticky cells can get stuck in small blood vessels which can slow or block the flow of oxygen to other parts of the body. Blood genotype indicates the type of protein (Haemoglobin) that is in the red blood cells.  You could be Haemoglobin AA, AS AC, SS or SC based on what is inherited from your parents.  Individuals with blood genotype SS and SC are said to have sickle cell disease while AS is known as sickle cell trait. SCD is widespread in the African continent especially in Nigeria due to lack of knowledge and furthermore because blood test laboratories are not regulated. The reason why this situation is rampart is due to the fact that some blood testing laboratories are not controlled.  The reason why I am writing about this is because many families have had the burden of giving birth to children with SCD as the parents went ahead to have their blood genotype tested, prior to their marriage. If you want to know your genotype, you can have a test done at any time in your life.  However, it is recommendable for couples considering marriage to have a genotype test done well before marriage.  I think it should become part of any institution’s rule that before they conduct marriage on any couple, the couple should go for a genotype test as the amount of children still being born with SC is extreme and the strain on the government and families can be avoided. The genotypes in humans are: AA, AS, AC, SS, SC and CC.  If as a couple either of you test has AS/AS or AS/ AS or AS/AC or SS/SS or AC/SS and AC/AC then you have no business getting married.  Compatible genotypes for marriage are: AA/AA or AA/AS or AA/SS or AA/AC. We live in a world where we can all do as we desire, anyone can marry for love and to whomever they wish.  Remember there is always a 25 per cent chance the chlid/ren will have SC trait (AS), a 25 per cent chance they will have haemoglobin C trait (AC) and a 25 per cent chance they will have haemoglobin AS disease (SC). For parents who were misdiagnosed, can you imagine the ordeal that they are deal with? Not only shouldn’t they have married, they are also having a child or more with SCD.  The state of affairs is most certainly not what they bargained for and could possible break the marriage.  In fact, I have had some men tell me that their wives have accused them of lying to them about their genotype. They said these after having a child with sickle cell disorder. Some wives have also told their husbands that they (their husbands) and laboratories connived to trap them or vice-versa. The bottom line is that all these accusations and counter-accusations are totally unnecessary since what has happened is now staring them in the face. But I can imagine the pain that both husband and wife would be going through.  There is the agony of guilt about what they have done to their child/ren and the pain of how they will cope as a family?  There is the pain of ‘one of us might have to stop work and it will not be me.’ There is the pain of what will people say; the distress, trauma and guilt are endless for families who did the right thing by checking their blood prior to marriage but unfortunately got the wrong blood result. Laboratory testing allows individuals to order their own blood work directly from the laboratory without the need to get a doctor’s referral or recommendation.  In as much as there are reputable laboratories all over the place, there are also many non-reputable ones around too. How can I find a reputable blood testing laboratory to go to, I hear you ask?  Well, you could go to a general hospital, a teaching hospital or a reputable blood testing laboratory.  You could do the test twice to be certain. How can you know a reputable laboratory? Do they have an online presence? Perhaps you could go to one recommended by someone you know and trust?  If the company has a website, browse the company’s website for discrepancies and indicators of professionalism. If you are suspicious about a business, then it is always best to err on the side of caution. One of the maxims of many business owners is: “If it sounds too good to be true, it usually is.” In terms of offers of tests at hugely reduced rates, cheap services rarely come without strings attached and should start warning bells ringing. Ref: www.ncbi.nim/nih.gov and www.study.com If you would like to get in touch with me regarding SCD or this column, please do so on: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do check out my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  