Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Federal Government’s social housing scheme, Family Homes Funds, is in talks with some state governments to develop over 40,000 affordable houses in the next one year, its Chief Executive Officer, Mr Femi Adewole, has said. Adewole said the FHF had already reached agreements with some of the state governments to finance a number of affordable homes. He said, “We have an agreement with Borno State to finance about 4,900 homes. Of that, 3,200 are replacement homes for Internally Displaced Persons and 1,700 for civil servants. “We have also signed with Yobe State Government for 3,600 homes; Adamawa, 2,000, and Bauchi, 2,500 homes. Discussions are currently ongoing with Ebonyi, Kogi, Akwa Ibom and Anambra states, among others.” He said the objective was that by next year, the FHF would have completed or would have gone into construction of about 40,000 homes. Adewole was quoted to have said these during an inspection of the  Muhammadu Sanusi 11 Royal Estate in Kano State by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed. He stated that with its housing projects, the FHF had rolled out a rental housing scheme where Nigerians could move to their houses with a month rent, a month deposit and an option to buy the house. Ahmed was quoted as saying the 767 Muhammadu Sanusi 11 Royal Estate was a testimony to the Federal Government’s trust in the FHF’s ability to champion affordable housing provision in the country. She said, “The FHF is a critical part of the Federal Government’s goal of bridging the housing gap in Nigeria. Affordable housing is one of the core areas of concern for this government and the government is committed to supporting the FHF through the provision of funding and supervision.” “It’s the largest housing fund in the history of Nigeria and if successful, it has the potential not only to change lives but boost the economy and attract investments and mobilise resources through other financial institutions.” Adewole said the estate commenced in 2018 as a fulfilment of the FHF’s mandate to provide affordable homes. He stated that one year into its existence, the FHF had about 4,000 homes currently at various stages of completion across five states of the federation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com