Dr. Sylvester Ikhisemojie The habit of washing hands frequently is not one that comes naturally to many people. The current emphasis placed on its efficacy in helping to drive down the numbers of people who take ill as a result of exposure to various organisms is not only timely but should remain a permanent fixture of our lives. That said, we must remember that many of our compatriots are not even able to obtain access to safe, potable water in any meaningful amount in the course of a day much less having proper access to the volume they require to wash the hands often. In many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, people do not get as much as 20 litres of clean water to use in a week. That is the equivalent of most buckets. As about 92 per cent of the inhabitants of this vast part of Africa live on an income that is less than $2 a day, the purchase of soap in any form is not seen as a priority. And a combination of insufficient water and a lack of soap among many inhabitants is enough to ensure the propagation of disease conditions. The washing of the hands is important because in a simple way, in any way you want to look at the issue, our hands are dirty. The hands come into contact on a daily basis with different people, food, objects and animals. In any of these places, they can pick up bacteria, viruses and other germs which cause various types of diseases when they get into our body. We are in the habit of touching our eyes, nose and mouth far more often than we realise not to mention touching our skin and the skin of other people. When we do so, we end up passing these germs into our system whenever we use those hands to prepare and eat food. Therefore, washing the hands can reduce the liability to get an infection among healthy people by as much as 65 to 70 per cent: but even in those people whose immunity is diminished by other disease conditions, frequent hand washing can prevent common infections by as much as 58 per cent. Such diseases are heart disease, diabetes, cancer, kidney disease and liver disease. To be sure, many people do not even know how to wash the hands well because they are not properly schooled in that art. The soap ought to be in contact with every part of the hands so that the friction it causes can have the maximum effect in bringing such cleaning about. You should properly rub the soap into the palms for at least 20 seconds and then ensure it gets between the fingers, the back of the hands, the thumb and the front edge of the nails whose underside are capable of hiding germs and gritty material. The longer the nails are, the greater the potential for harbouring microbes and only habitual cleaning of the nails during hand washing can rid that area of the said germs. After you must have finished washing the hands, you should not then close the tap with the cleaned hands. If someone is with you, that person can assist you in turning the tap off so that you do not re-contaminate the hands you just washed. You could use a clean napkin, towel, or even your elbow to avoid messing up your hand cleaning effort. Where there are no taps, somebody else can always pour the water while you wash. While this article has been previously published on this page about six years ago, it appeared in another format at that time in which the focus was on the prevention of mostly bacterial infections. Today, in the light of what the world is now faced with due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it has become important to remind people once more that washing the hands is able to reduce the likelihood of also contracting diseases caused by viruses. Covid-19 can cause pneumonia, respiratory failure and death in some people especially the elderly ones and those people who have a reduced immunity as a result of certain diseases they were nursing previously as we made reference to above. It can be transmitted through droplets arising from the mouth and nose and have an incubation period of up to 14 days. It can be passed on from one person to another by people who do not have any symptoms. Reports from the current centers of this pandemic show without a doubt that while  many other measures taken by people are good, the singular act of imbibing proper hand-washing techniques could reduce the rate of spread by anything from 25 to 60 per cent. Therefore, proper hand hygiene should be made available in all public places to help fight this pandemic and others that will come later. The flu is not a typical problem seen in sub-Saharan Africa. Where it is a problem, which is mainly in the temperate regions of the world, infections can be life-threatening. Even in those areas, the hand washing habit has been shown to limit the rate of spreading such infections. And this is particularly so among the people who do not yet have symptoms but have been shown to be able to transmit the infection to others. In this and other likely infections, washing of the hands is seen as the effective method of stopping the transmission of the influenza virus and other organisms like it from one person to another. This is especially true of the period between the acquisition of the virus and its dissemination to others. Other infections that regular washing of the hands can help prevent include viral conjunctivitis popularly known in this part of the world as “Apollo.” This occurs when the eyes become reddish and have a crusty, itchy discharge which is further disseminated when the patient who has it seeks to reduce their discomfort by rubbing the eyes before touching all sorts of surfaces with the hands. By doing so, the virus or bacteria responsible for it end up on all kinds of objects in the house and elsewhere and other people then pick them up from those objects and spread the infection when they touch their own eyes. Children are at a particular risk of getting this and other infections because they touch all sorts of things around them thereby exposing them to contact with all sorts of contaminated materials. This places them at particular risk of getting eye infections, skin infections, sore throat, lung infections including pneumonia, vomiting and diarrhoea as well as urinary tract infections. Another viral infection that can be transmitted in a manner similar to the above is infectious mononucleosis which we have also treated on this page. It is also known as the kissing disease whose main medium of propagation is saliva. As a result of that, any object on which an infected person has touched, sneezed upon or coughed on or into can become a reservoir for disseminating the disease. So that the sharing of drinks, cups or other eating utensils can help to infect others. Dear doctor, my wife is pregnant with her first issue and she experiences a vaginal discharge. Please what could be the problem and what is the way out?  0809xxxxxxx In simple terms, there may be nothing wrong with your wife. If the discharge which she has does not have an odour, not itchy and does not have an abnormal colour, there may be nothing to worry about. Indeed, there is a normal discharge which pregnant women have and it has a specific name which you do not need to be bothered with. All you need to know is that there may be no problem at all and that if the discharge fits any of the exceptions mentioned above, she should go to the hospital, get tested and obtain treatment if a problem is found. Dear doctor, thanks for your health education. I am 39 years old but my body is always warm anytime of the day even when the weather is cold. This hotness has been there as far back as I can remember. My wife is irritated and complains about it. Please educate me on how to flush out what is not supposed to be in my system.  0805xxxxxxx Thank you for your kind words. The essay you are referring to did not actually have in its heart the scenario you painted in your question. You will feel warm most times because you are a warm blooded organism. However, the alternate hotness and cold that essay referred to is the event of actually feeling hot inside your body as if you were ill. It happens suddenly and often goes away again without treatment and we concluded that such events were due to the hormones within your body provoking such responses. The cold flashes also happen for the opposite reasons. However, when your body is always warm like you are saying above, it is often because you have a high metabolic rate, a high rate for breaking down your food such that the level of activity within your body is at a higher rate than is usual for the average person. To that extent, it is not a disease otherwise after many years like you indicated, some other things might have happened. Right now, though, it is not likely that you have anything that might require you to flush out of your system. Dear doctor, thank you for your piece last week on “chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.” I have had difficulty with breathing since 20/09/1978. I went to Eku Baptist Hospital in 1980 and the University of Benin Teaching Hospital some years after that. The problem has remained the same. Using your words, breathing for me is an ordeal. What do you think is the solution?  0803xxxxxxx It is remarkable that you remember the precise date on which your breathing problems began. Well, as that essay made clear, it is not all the time that a permanent solution is available to deal with your condition. Many factors are responsible for it ranging from whether it is an allergy that has brought you into that status or your lifestyle is responsible or if indeed, whether the factors responsible are genetic and therefore traceable to other family members. Although the last factor was not highlighted in the essay mainly due to space constraints, it is important that you know that certain people who have the alpha-1 anti-trypsin deficiency are also prone to developing breathing problems which deteriorate as they age. Such a problem can also affect the liver and causes sacs to be created within either organ that progressively get bigger and impede the functioning of the organs. So that although you did not mention any family history of a similar ailment, these are important factors your current doctors need to investigate to appraise you of what you need to do to make your life easier. That effort combined with the health tips offered last week in that essay should avail much. Dear doctor, I enjoy reading your articles and question-and-answer sessions. Please which fertility clinics in Ibadan (apart from teaching hospitals) provide excellent services in artificial insemination? Thanks. xxx@xxx.com Well, there is a fertility centre at Mokola along Olubadan Palace Way. The one in the Academy area of Iwo Road is another good place where you can obtain such services. Good luck. Dear doctor, I am a 65-year-old man and was previously passionately into sports. In the 70s, one of my contemporaries was Dele Udoh and I performed in sports at a high level. In the last one year, I have felt an increasing amount of pain in my shoulders which is worse in the left one. I still do morning fitness tests and hold up quite well. However, the painful shoulders are bothersome. What can I do about that? 0802xxxxxxx When you have problems like this one, it is usually better to go to the hospital where you can have a proper examination in a way that will indicate what is wrong and how severe it is. At the present time, it is possible that you have osteoarthritis of the shoulder joints or an inflammatory condition of the capsules of the joints in both places that is causing you so much pain. A proper examination and X-rays most probably will lead to your referral to an orthopaedic surgeon who will point at which one is the problem. Some form of treatment should then be possible. Dear doctor, I suffer from diabetes and have been on Glucophage and Daonil since 2006 when it was diagnosed. However, my blood sugar has been well controlled since then and on some days I do not even take my medications especially when I check my sugar level and it is normal. Now, at 58 years, I have been told that I am at special risk of falling sick if I should get coronavirus. Sir, how can I prevent myself from getting this disease? Thank you sir.0803xxxxxxx When you have a problem like this, it is better and safer not to panic but to take advice from your doctor. On this page and elsewhere, the emphasis has been on prevention. The aim ought to be to prevent you from getting this infection. Wash your hands often with soap and water. Avoid crowds such as you might find in clubs, markets, cinemas, burials and marriages. It is also vital to avoid the church or the mosque for the time being and if possible dispense with public transportation altogether so as not to be crowded into a confined space with other people who might habour the virus. Finally, avoid touching your nose, eyes and face with your hands and keep a distance from people who are coughing or sneezing. If you are coughing or sneezing yourself, do so into a tissue paper or paper towel and safely trash what you have used. Handkerchiefs are less safe for use now because you are less likely to dispose them after usage but rather keep them in your pockets where they will recirculate the virus. If you have any friends or relatives who have recently been in Europe, the US or Asia, this is the time to keep your distance from them. Tell them to stay in their homes and you stay in yours. Do not go to the airports. Lastly, do not shake hands with people anyhow.  If you can do all of these, you can prevent the virus reaching you. Dear doctor, the coronavirus that has come is caused by what sir? And how can one stay safe because there is so much information all over the place that one does not even know what is true again? 0802xxxxxxx The coronavirus as the name indicates is caused by a virus. A virus that invades a person’s body usually has no treatment and that is why this particular infection is causing so much panic around the world even as it unfortunately causes many people to die. A virus usually tricks your body to change its nature and help it to reproduce its kind and it can even invade other micro-organisms. Under the microscope, it looks like a crown but one also that has many horns. If you are interested in how to avoid getting it, look at the answer given in question no: 6 above. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 