Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti An Ekiti State High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti has sentenced six persons to death by hanging for murder. The condemned persons are Oniyelu Olu, 63; Folorunso Oluwatoba, 65; Peter Ajayi, 73; Dolamu Olaide, 29; John Ojo, 77; and Lateef Arowolo, 45. The seventh person, Tijani Arowolo, 80, died during trial. Justice Lekan Ogunmoye, who pronounced the death sentence on the convicts on Tuesday, said, “The prosecution has successfully established a prima facie case of  conspiracy, attempted murder and murder against the defendants, and may God have mercy on their souls”. The condemned persons also bagged five years’ imprisonment each for conspiracy and attempted murder, except the second accused person, who was sentenced to 10 years. According to the charges, the offences ran contrary to sections 516, 320 and 316 of the Criminal Code, CAP C16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. The prosecutor, Oluwakemi Daniel, had told the court that the offences were committed on or about February 7, 2017, in Ilupeju Ekiti, when the convicts conspired to murder one Sola Adeniyi, 27, and also attempted to murder a motorcyclist, Ojo Olaoluwa, 22. The motorcyclist had given evidence that the 2nd accused person, Oluwatoba, stopped him on the day of the incident and when he was about to mount his motorcycle, the rider noticed blood drops from his bag, he asked him to open the bag because of the police checkpoint ahead, but Oluwatoba said he was carrying a grasscutter and he could not open the bag. When the motorcyclist perceived that the content might be incriminating, he took to his heels. To prove his case, the prosecutor called five witnesses, while exhibits tendered included the confessional statements made to the police by the convicts, photographs of the severed body of the deceased, medical report from the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, a Dane gun, a locally-made single-barrelled gun and one cartridge. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  