Tola Dehinde I have come to realise over the years that it is difficult to be single, living alone and have sickle cell. The reason why I said so is because I had experienced the situation and it is not because I don’t have family. I do but they are all far away. I know one could be single and living with family or friends and the people one lives with are God sent; in that situation, one will get the support one needs. But not everyone is in that fortunate position. However, I have had people tell me that their family members were fed up with them being sick all the time and so, even though the person with SCD lives with people, it seems to such a person that he or she lives alone. What do you do if you live alone and this crazy sickness starts in the middle of the night?  Hence my statement that it is not easy being all by yourself, single and living alone. What I have realised though is one needs a good support system in place. I am not talking about many people but a faithful few, who would make one think that one has a troupe around or behind one. It is not in the quantity of people but rather in the quality of the people ready to go into the pit with one when the going gets tough, sickness wise. One thing I know is that because sickle cell crisis will come on unexpectedly, anytime it wishes. The patient knows that when the crisis comes, a lot of one’s itinerary would have to be postponed or cancelled.  And this is a nuisance. Recently, I was sick and looking back all through the years, God’s promise that, ‘He will never leave me, nor forsake me’ rings through for me. On a personal note, I don’t like disturbing anyone and would on the whole not tell many people. The reason being is because I don’t want people to go out of their way to have to include ‘Tola’ into their already busy diaries all because I am sick.  But when I say it afterwards, my people are upset with me. They want me to call them and let them know. I tend to keep quiet not because I want to keep my being sick a secret. No. I say nothing because what usually happen is loved ones’ calling, texting, visiting, when I am in pains and when all what I want to do is curl up and speak to no one. It is absolutely not about some people should know and some shouldn’t. It’s about me; it’s about preserving my energy, it’s about consciously trying to not talk too much. It’s about my inability to not keep repeating the same thing over and over again when I am in much pains. Anyway, what tends to happen when I have a crisis is that I have people being upset that they did not know. I am getting to understand that everyone is coming from a place called love. When you love someone, you want to be where they are, whether they are in a good or a bad place.  The world generally wants to be with you when it’s all good and not bad.  If you have people who want to be with you when the going gets tough, then allow them to come into your ‘tough crisis’ world. I say this now however it is a lesson that I am also learning because I am used to getting on with things and not being a burden on anyone. Nevertheless, we all need a shoulder to cry on from time to time.  Sometimes, it’s okay to not have all the answers and just allow a loved one to be there for you, make decisions for you, and help carry your load or burden as the case might be. There was a study years back about the role one’s faith plays in one’s life when one is sick. Africans tend to believe in God more when they are going through any hardship. For someone with sickle cell disease living a life of pain is second nature to one’s life.  What do you do, when you are sick?  Do you turn to your God?  Do you pray?  Do you meditate on the Word?  Do you play music from your religion?  Do you listen to audio messages?   Do you go to a crusade? These are the various ways to soothe the pain away, albeit psychologically.  Some have said, that in their doing one of the above, they have been healed of SCD.  I am truly happy for them. Nonetheless, that is not my reality; my reality is that I am still subjected to pains and complications of SCD and I have to rely on my loved ones’ from time to time and they are happy to be there for me. Believe me, I have meditated and done all the above. I therefore have to face my personal reality and keep it moving. My people told me that if the foot was exchanged, I would go over and beyond for them too and so, why do I find it difficult to accept help?  That would be another column for another day. The truth of the matter is if you have people who go out of their way for you, you also need to be helpful to other people. Go out of your way to support someone and not sit and bemoan your plight all the time.  The last time you were sick and people helped you, did you return and say thank you or show some appreciation?  How did you express your gratitude? If you are an adult or a parent reading this, have you acknowledged those who have been there for you in the last few months or years?. No one owes anyone anything and so if you have people showing you some love, what have you done to say thank you to your helpers in return? I am therefore using this medium to say thank to my loved ones who love me irrespective of the sickle cell disease. I would also like to thank everyone who reads this. Pass it on and take the time to send an encouraging email to me. If you would like to get in touch with me about SCD or this column, pls do so on: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 