Olalekan Adetayo, Chukwudi Akasike, Mudiaga Affe and Sampson Itode The Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, has stopped the use of one cup for the sharing of wine during Holy Communion services as one of the safety measures to prevent the spread of the dreaded coronavirus. The church has also suspended handshakes and hugs which are hitherto being used for the “exchange of peace” during communion service. The church’s General Secretary, Gershinen Dajur, disclosed this in a letter addressed to all archbishops and bishops of the church on Friday, on behalf of the Primate of the church, Most Rev Nicholas Okoh. Okoh directed that in place of one big cup for Holy Communion wine, churches should start using smaller communion cups for individuals. The letter partly reads, “His Grace, the Most Rev Nicholas Okoh has directed that certain steps be taken as guides against contacting and communicating the virus among our people. “Also, handshakes and hugs during the exchange of peace should be substituted with non-contagious gestures such as hand-waving, mutual bowing or making the sign of the cross etc. “Priests and church members who observe they have symptoms similar to that of COVID-19 should call the hospital immediately for examination. Let everyone be encouraged to observe a good personal hygiene through proper washing of hands with soap or hand sanitiser; covering of mouth with handkerchief when sneezing or coughing etc. “Water and soap for washing of hands as well as hand sanitisers should be made available during services or events. “Let the church be encouraged to trust God who is well able to help us in our times of trouble (Psalms 46:1). This is the time to trust and obey God than to be anxious and panic (Phil 4:6-7).” Describing the coronavirus disease as a pandemic that needs to be handled with all seriousness, Okoh said the measures should be taken while the church continues praying to God for help on the issue. The cleric asked parishioners to read, study and implement important safety tips from the World Health Organisation’s website or the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on how to handle oneself in a time like this. Meanwhile, the Rivers State Government has said that a 43-year-old man suspected to have the virus tested negative on Friday. Speaking with journalists in Port Harcourt on Saturday, the state Commissioner for Health, Prof Chike Princewill, disclosed that his samples examined showed he tested negative. He added, “Let me begin by reiterating that as at today (Saturday), Rivers State has not recorded any positive case of COVID-19. “A 43-year-old male Nigerian, who had returned from the United States of America on the 22nd of February through the Lagos International Airport, visited Port Harcourt for official duties. “He had earlier exhibited mild respiratory symptoms and was placed on treatment for malaria and respiratory tract infection. The Rapid Response Team was quick to react, investigate and self-isolate the patient, while nasal oropharyngeal and sputum samples were collected for analysis and dispatched to the reference laboratory in Lagos University Teaching Hospital.’’ “As I promised to inform, the result from the test is available and it is negative.” Opadokun, cleric seek increased awareness A former Secretary of the defunct National Democratic Coalition, Chief Ayo Opadokun, and the pastor in charge, Ikate Baptist Church in Surulere, Dr Jide Adetutu, on Saturday urged government and churches to step up awareness campaign on the novel coronavirus, also known as COVID 19, which has claimed thousands of lives globally. They charged churches specifically to continue to educate worshippers on how to prevent the virus through the washing of hands and the use of sanitisers. They said this during a breakfast luncheon organised by the Ikate Baptist Church to raise N52m for the expansion to build worship centres for children and teenagers as well as create car slots. Adetutu said the need for worshippers to be hygienic and security-conscious could not be undermined at this period. The cleric said, “The outbreak of coronavirus and other epidemics including Lassa fever are signs of end time according to the scriptures. It is time for the people and the nations to come closer to God. We must also strive to be hygienically conscious to prevent infections.” However, Opadokun, who is the Chairman of the Church Expansion Committee, said in addition to the church’s responsibility of teaching members to take preventive measures against coronavirus, they should also be educated that anyone with the symptoms of the virus-like headache and coughing should avoid large gathering to curb the spread of the virus. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  