Rasheed Bisiriyu toyota Land Cruiser may have set a new record in endurance as a new study has shown the top sport utility vehicle is most likely to reach over 300,000 kilometres on its mileometer (odometer). Mileometer is an instrument in a vehicle that measures the distance it has travelled or the number of kilometres/miles covered. The study, according multiple sources including caradvice.com, was conducted by a United States’ car search engine website, iSeeCars.com. Some other Toyota models were also came ahead of many other brands in the vehicles involved in the study, taking out seven places in the top 15 model list. The report said the company analysed more than 15.8 million cars sold last year to determine which models had the highest percentage of reaching 321,868km (200,000 miles). It stated, “Over 15.8 million cars that were sold in 2019 were analysed to determine which had the highest percentage reaching 300,000kms, and the Land Cruiser came out on top with 15.7 per cent. “In fact, seven out of the top 15 were Toyotas, with the large SUV Sequoia coming in second place with 9.2 per cent.” One of the outcomes of the study is the trend that today’s people are buying more SUVs as the list included 10 of the vehicles in the segment. Other vehicle types that made the list are three pickups, one sedan, and one mass people mover. Honda was said to have come out a major winner in compact SUV segment with the CR-V securing 1.1 per cent; the Accord representing the mid-size sedan scored 1.8 per cent; and the small sedan went to the Civic with 2.3 per cent. Other notable models reaching 300,000km are the BMW X3, topping the luxury compact SUV list with 0.2 per cent; the Toyota Tundra topped the pick-up list with 2.9 per cent, and the Toyota Prius in the hybrid car segment with two per cent. “Based on cars reaching nearly 250,000km, the Audi TT topped the sports car segment with 4.1 per cent, and the Tesla Model S, based on reaching over 150,000kms, was number one in the EV category with 2.3 per cent,” it stated. The Chief Executive Officer of iSeeCars, Phong Ly, was quoted as saying, “With roots dating back to 1950, the iconic and indestructible Toyota Land Cruiser is designed to last at least 25 years, and it is relied upon in many developing countries where off-road driving is the norm.” A number of reports online revealed a startling amount of Land Cruisers for sale with well over 300,000km on the milometer. A look at the 2020 edition of Toyota Land Cruiser shows that it is an excellent off-road companion, with relatively quick acceleration, extensive range of standard equipment. According to Toyota, the 2020 Land Cruiser has earned a loyal following from around the world. It said the product of over 60 years of global adventures came with a sophisticated blend of off-road prowess, on-road comfort and unparalleled refinement. Toyota said, “It also offers seating for up to eight passengers; after all, adventures are best shared. And paying homage to the legends that came before is Land Cruiser Heritage Edition. As the latest extension of the iconic badge, it celebrates where it has been and is ready for what’s next. Land Cruiser is built with 5.7 litre V8 engine, eight-speed transmission and robust suspension that can help to make every corner of the world worth exploring. Land Cruiser’s Multi-terrain Select and Crawl Control help you carve your own path and explore new territory. Stylish interior The Land Cruiser helps you adventure in luxury with features like an available cooler box, and heated and ventilated leather-trimmed seats. Seating The vehicle is designed to sit up to eight passengers and this will ensure comfort for everyone. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    