Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Jobs of thousands of travel agents across the country are threatened by the coronavirus pandemic, the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies has said. The President of NANTA, Bankole Bernard, said travel agencies businesses worth billions of naira were also on the verge of collapse, adding members of the association needed bailout from the Federal Government to keep their operations going. The International Air Transport Association on Thursday said Nigeria’s aviation industry would record a huge loss of 22,200 jobs and $434m (N160bn) revenue and approximately 2.2 million jobs due to the disruption to air travel as COVID-19 continued to spread globally. According to IATA, Africa’s air transport industry’s economic contribution is estimated at $55.8bn supporting 6.2 million jobs and contributing 2.6 per cent to Gross Domestic Product. The association however said international bookings in Africa were down by roughly 20 per cent in March and April, while domestic bookings had fallen by about 15 per cent in March and 25 per cent in April. Bernard said there had been over 50 per cent drop in sales of ticket and reservations on international routes since the outbreak of COVID-19. According to him, travel agencies also need a bailout for remittance period from IATA. He said, “NANTA is putting a position to IATA to look at how we can defer our payment from the mandatory two weeks window to a month and above. “Therefore, we need the government’s support in form of bailout granting us access to soft loans in the form of interest-free loans and overdrafts to enable us to meet up with our obligations to IATA. Our IATA licence is at risk if we are not able to remit to IATA and we have never got into default and we don’t want to go into default.” Lufthansa has also warned that airlines may not survive a prolonged coronavirus pandemic without government help. German-owned airline, like most of its rivals around the world, has slashed capacity as travel restrictions and falling demand make many commercial routes unviable. The airline has also proposed different working patterns but has said it is impossible to forecast the impact of coronavirus on its profitability. Chief Executive Carsten Spohr was quoted in a report as saying, “The longer this crisis lasts, the more likely it is that the future of aviation cannot be guaranteed without state aid.” He added, “The spread of the coronavirus has placed the entire global economy and our company in an unprecedented state of emergency. At present, no one can foresee the consequences.” Lufthansa, like many airlines, has been focused on repatriating citizens struggling to return home as commercial flight options dwindle. Spohr said they were also trying to ensure that supply chains for “many thousands of businesses do not break down by mobilising additional capacity for air freight transport”. Lufthansa has reduced its passenger flights by 95 per cent, also axing all flights from Munich, now offering them only from Frankfurt. Lufthansa has been in talks with the German government on providing liquidity, including special loans from the state development bank. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  