Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command, on Wednesday, said it would extend the enforcement of the ban on gatherings of more than 25 persons to markets and stores to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state. PUNCH Metro had reported that some clubs, event centres and places of worship, where more than 25 people had gathered, were sealed off by agencies of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement that the enforcement would be extended to markets and stores, except those where food and medicinal items were being sold. He also stated that financial institutions and telecommunications companies not affected by the ban should ensure compliance with the government’s directive of not having more than 25 persons on duty. Elkana stated, “The Lagos State Police Command had in the last six days deployed its resources across the state to ensure that the guidelines and directives issued by both the federal and state governments to prevent the spread of coronavirus are fully obeyed. The enforcement team had shut down eight clubs, 15 schools, six event centres and eight places of worship for non-compliance. “With the directives issued by the Lagos State Government on Tuesday, March 24, 2020, the enforcement will now be extended to all markets and stores, except markets that are selling food items, water, medicine, medical equipment and other related essential life-saving products with effect from Thursday, March 26, 2020. “Corporate bodies, such as financial institutions, telecommunications companies and businesses not affected by the ban should also ensure that both their employees and customers/clients are not more than 25 in number at a time. Staff members should be posted to ATM stands to ensure that customers using the services space themselves to avoid body contact. “Eateries should encourage their customers to use take away services and those who must sit in the restaurants/eateries should apply the required spacing guidelines. Eateries should not have more than 25 persons at a time, including their employees. “Hotels should only operate lodging and accommodation services with minimal staff members on duty. Conference and event halls, swimming pools and other services attracting crowds should be suspended in line with the order and directives of the government.” Elkana said the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, enjoined the residents to obey the safety regulations put in place by the government for the benefit of everyone, adding that violators would be dealt with in line with extant laws. He urged residents to call 09010512285, 09010512286, 09010512287 and 09010512288 for information or complaints regarding noncompliance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 