Rasheed Bisiriyu BMW is working on a redesign of its 2-Series coupe expected to do up to 420 horsepower, an indication that the new car is aimed at track enthusiasts. For cars, horsepower translates into speed, www.bryantmotors.com, adding that to speed faster in driving, one needs more horsepower. The idea of a new model of BMW 2-Series is coming about six after the current one has been in the market. A report by an online journal, Motor Authority, which recalls that the current model dates back to 2014, says the plan is to stick with rear-wheel drive. “This means that our favourite 2-Series variant, the M2, won’t lose its hardcore edge. It also quotes Autocar as reporting on Monday that the next 2-Series coupe would ride on the platform underpinning the Z4 and Supra twins—a design related to the CLAR platform underpinning BMW’s whole lineup from the 3-Series up. The British outlet also reports that the car’s M2 variant will feature a detuned version of the 3.0-litre twin-turbocharged inline-6 found in the X3 M and X4 M and destined for the next M3 and M4. It quotes insiders as saying people should expect about 420 horsepower in the new M2, which is up considerably on the 365hp of the current M2. This has thus outclassed the 405hp of the current M2 Competition. It hints that the redesigned 2-Series coupe expected to debut in 2021 will come as a 2022 model, adding that the M2 variant should trail the regular coupe by about a year. “This means we might not be looking at a new M2 until the 2023 model year. To help tide things over, there are rumours that an extra-hardcore CSL version of the current M2 could be launched. The car would be aimed at track enthusiasts in a similar fashion to 2016’s M4 GTS,” it states. Autocar also reports that the front-wheel-drive 2-Series Gran Coupe and related 1-Series hatchback sold overseas will get their own dedicated M models. These will reportedly come with all-wheel drive and peak outputs registering over 400hp, likely from a 2.0-litre turbocharged inline-4. The BMW M boss, Marcus Flasch, is said to have previously said that such cars were not possible due to the lack of a suitable engine. The report, however, notes that given the interest in rival offerings from Audi Sport and Mercedes-AMG, the situation may change. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  