Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The drama which played out on the floor of the Senate on Thursday, was a confirmation of an uneasy calm among senators in the federal parliament, investigations by Saturday PUNCH revealed on Friday. The red chamber had on Thursday, in controversial circumstances, considered and approved the report of its committee on local and foreign loans which worked on the request by the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to borrow $22.796bn. Findings by Saturday PUNCH among members of the red chamber showed that many of the senators had been complaining about the alleged ‘rubber stamp’ nature of the chamber which the leadership remained resolute to maintain and sustain. A senator from the South-South geopolitical zone of the country, who pleaded anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the issue, said on Friday that the trouble started when the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, announced that the foreign loan request would be approved. The senator said Lawan had made up his mind to work towards the loan approval, even when the committee had yet to start work on it. He said, “It was the public declaration of the Senate President that made many of us to show apathy towards the debate on it, but we were prepared to make our position known before the final approval, which was done through the minority leader on Thursday.” Another senator from the North-East geopolitical zone, who also craved anonymity, told Saturday PUNCH that the insistence by the Senate President that the Senate under his watch would always approve any request from the Presidency was generating cold war among his colleagues. “Many of us are no longer comfortable with the people’s perception of the Senate as an annex of the Presidential Villa. The President of the Senate had said that his election was made possible by the leadership of the All Progressives Congress and the governors elected on the party’s platform. “Also recently, the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, also said his victory at the senate presidency election was made possible by President Muhammadu Buhari and the embattled Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole. “This shows that our presiding officers owe their unalloyed allegiance to Buhari and Oshiomhole and would do anything possible to satisfy their interest. “It is true that many senators are currently not comfortable with the situation and that is why the Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, was talking about the suppression of minority voices which the Senate President denied on Thursday.” The bottled-up anger among the senators against the leadership reached its peak with the outburst of Abaribe during the consideration of the Buhari’s loan request on Thursday on the floor of the red chamber. READ ALSO: Service chiefs lack ideas, tactics to tackle Boko Haram –Delta monarch The Minority Leader stopped at nothing to accuse Lawan of suppressing the voices of the minority caucus just to satisfy certain interests. He said denying the senators their rights to consider the loan request as it related to the beneficiaries before giving a blanket approval would be unfair to Nigerians. He had said, “Now we want to make our input, we are being told it is either we pass or not and I think that is not very good for the economy of this country. You are putting us in a very impossible situation because you are telling us to pass even those things that you don’t approve of. “This is also about Nigeria. This is not about partisanship. If we are going to talk about partisanship, some of us have complained that this is lopsided and we didn’t want to make an issue of it. I want us to ask if we take this issue item by item because we cannot just wholesomely pass everything that come. If we have to do that, we don’t need to sit here and debate anything.” Lawan, however, denied using his power to suppress the voice of the minority. He had said, “I don’t want the discussion of this loan to degenerate into partisanship. This is for our country. You are behaving like the majority; everyone is just listening to you. We should not be talking in the chamber based on political party affiliation.” Unhappy with the situation after the closed-door session, Abaribe left the chamber and refused to be part of the decision to approve the controversial loan request. Minority Leader playing to the gallery, seeking cheap popularity –Spokesperson The Spokesperson for the Senate, Godiya Akwashiki, has, however, dismissed insinuations that the Senate leadership was suppressing minority voices to satisfy certain interests. Reacting to the drama that played out on the floor of the Senate on Thursday, Akwashiki accused Abaribe of playing to the gallery by trying to score cheap popularity. He also dismissed the decision of the Minority Leader to leave the chamber in anger, describing it as no big deal. He said, “There is no big deal if the Minority Leader of the Senate walks out of the chamber. No law forbids him from doing so. It is not in the Senate rule that if a senator is going out, the Senate President should stop him; no law says that. “As far as I am concerned, somebody must always occupy the seat of the Minority Leader or the Majority Leader for legislative activities to continue in the chamber. I do know that after the closed-door session, we passed the two recommendations of the committee. “The Majority Leader moved for the adoption of the recommendations and it was seconded by somebody from the minority caucus. The law did not say that the Minority Leader must be on the seat before the activities of the Senate could continue.  Even if the Majority Leader is not there, his deputy will take over. “Abaribe might have left the chamber to attend a committee meeting and decided to delegate his powers to his deputy.” Akwashiki also justified the decision of the President of the Senate to deny Abaribe the chance to debate the committee report. “We set aside a date to agree on whether to borrow as a nation or not. We discussed the issue extensively in the chamber. If anybody has reasons why we should not take the loan that was the most appropriate day to voice out. That is the best day to vibrate, not a day meant for the approval of the loan. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: South, Middle Belt leaders reject Boko Haram amnesty “We have given the assignment to the committee which met and returned to the plenary with their findings and recommendations. On a day like this (Thursday), we are only expected to go through the recommendations of the committee which represented the entire Senate. “For somebody to bring partisanship into it and try to cause confusion, it would not be allowed in the Senate because we are lawmakers working and operating under Senate rules. I don’t want somebody who is trying to gain cheap popularity to come up and the press would want to support him. No. “The minority leader created the confusion since he demanded a debate on the foreign loan request, knowing full well that it was against the Senate rules. The Senate President gave the Minority Leader all the time he needed to talk so that it will not look as if he is being denied his rights. “If you are saying that the Senate was a rubber stamp, then, the Minority Leader is also a part of the rubber stamp. He was there when the request was read on the floor of the Senate, he was there when we set aside a day for the debate. I don’t know whether he walked out angrily or not.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 