Peter Dada,  Akure A professor of microbial pathology, Michael Odimayo has called on Nigerians to be conscious of the deadly viral disease known as ‘hepatitis B’, saying the prevalence of the disease in the country was on the increase. He disclosed that over 20 million people had been infected with the disease out of over 200 million population of Nigeria. The don disclosed this while delivering the first inaugural lecture of the University of Medical Sciences, Ondo town, Ondo State. The lecture was titled : ‘Turning the tide against infectious disease : The microbial pathologist’s nexus.’ Odimayo, a lecturer in  UNIMED,  however noted that the impact of the disease on the health and wealth of Nigerians was unquantifiable. He said, “ Efforts of our government in supporting the health of the people including vaccination of all children against hepatitis B is commendable. However we must be conscious of heavy presence of viral hepatitis in our nation. “ With a population of about 200 million people, the current prevalence of 12.4 per cent, means over 20 million people are infected in Nigeria, yet, only a handful of infected individuals are accessing standard treatment. “ Although the eradication of hepatitis B by means of universal vaccination seems technically achievable, this task is made difficult by hundreds of millions of individuals who are already chronically infected with the disease globally.” The don however declared that the elimination of the hepatitis B would only be successful when all those millions of infected people were cured. The inaugural lecturer also said efforts had commenced to find cure for the disease at the University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital,  as he said the viral diagnostic system of the institution was about to be fully installed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  