Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. It is not surprising that more and more Africans are embracing technology and the digital way of life. This is simply because Africa is indeed a continent that has always been curious, energetic, hardworking, innovative and much more. Yes, I’d agree that at some point, Africans, particularly leaders, became too dependent on natural resources and the divisive style of our colonial masters did not help matters. That notwithstanding, the younger generation of Africans today are embracing technology in an interesting way. For instance, many now prefer to order for food online, rather than visit a local food vendor; they log on to their social media accounts and prefer to interact with their friends through that medium, rather than going over to them for a visit. This is technology working at its peak, affecting our lifestyles and influencing our behaviour. Recall that the technology that gave birth to the industrial revolution in Europe and America also established the industrial society. Radio created a society of music listeners, while the television established a culture of movies and TV reality shows. It is pertinent to state that culture, in this context, refers to the ideas, customs and social behaviour of a particular people or society. In the many small ways that technology has affected our collective and individual behaviour, these have added up to the cultural changes that we see today. From the two examples pointed out earlier, it can clearly be seen that the behaviour of an individual can influence that of others through technology. Some have even argued that the influence of technology on culture is negative, but one cannot forget in a hurry how the Arab spring started, with the aid of informative technology. Technology has enhanced a form of seamless universal correctness, established new economic realities and created pathways for good governance. Technology has enabled the establishment of relationships and communities that can exactly fit into our own version of survival. The influence of technology on culture should be viewed as a positive addition to the areas that can be explored more for the overall benefit. It is not a new cliché any longer that technology is changing almost every other aspects of our lives, with huge benefits to the society. Sometimes, technology is beyond the hardware and software that solve the challenges, but rather about managing the process that accompanies the change in culture. Having the opportunity to have travelled beyond the shores of the African continent, I have come across a variety of cultures and seen how technology is getting adopted in diverse fields of endeavours. Cultural differences have also been influenced by global communications created by technology. Today, we communicate via Skype, emails and social media channels, irrespective of what part of the world the parties involved are communicating from. Technology has been able to break through the limitations of culture. Humans are wired to be social animals and it appears that technology may not be able to replace human interaction, however, what is required is the combination of the digital and human components to establish communication across culture borders. The cultural difference is also observed by the diverse possibilities in technology; for instance, in Africa, the connectivity speed is simply not good enough or in some cases, no connectivity at all. The global spread of the new information technology narrative has thoroughly influenced the changes seen in today’s African societies. Globalisation, through technology, has been favourable and enhanced the power of the Internet. Every cultural model gives answers to the questions that occur over a period. The changes that spring up from the cultural diversity of knowledge can characterise diverse societies. These are the changes that arise from introducing advanced technologies into the human culture. Coming in contact with technologies has triggered changes in human behaviour, thus, gradually leading to readjustment and articulating the relationship between individuals and their environment. Technological revolution seen over the years are eventually cultural revolutions, as the world gradually moved from the first industrial revolution to the fourth industrial revolution. The role technology plays in a society indicates the indelible relationship that binds an individual, the society and technology itself, as well. Technology is not just a machine, but a tool that sets up a relationship between man, devices and the field of knowledge. Technologies do change time, space and relationships. It even changes the way we communicate. This has resulted in the different rates of development in different parts of the world and this depends on how the society has been able to infuse it into its culture. The more our awareness of existing in a closely-knit global world, the more the necessity of embracing technology into our culture. There is a great gulf between how the speed of digital technology is increasing and the way the cultural model is getting fitted into its inherent changes. On the web and in real life, for instance, the way time is perceived is quite different; however, the Internet is gradually influencing many perceptions in real life. The narrative for a cultural change is influenced by the Internet and it cuts across all societies and culture that cannot do without technology. What then does the future hold for technology, influencing culture? From all stated above, it would be quite useful for us, if we proceed by asking salient questions in the mold of these ones. Since technology has been influencing culture, how can one prepare the young generation for the future? Technology has influenced communication, as it provides new components in the creation subjects that are imaginary. Thinking about what the future brings, there must be a selection of proper and useful knowledge. I would like to state that some cultural features that may likely play major roles in the gathering of awareness and possibilities to face the future. These features would provide young Africans with the tools relevant for the future. Young Africans need to learn how to think about intercultural approaches, master the ability to incorporate and overcome the limiting factor of time. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    