Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The founder, Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Aare Afe Babalola, has challenged Nigerian scientists to step up research in order to join their counterparts in other parts of the world to find a lasting solution to the ravaging coronavirus pandemic. Babalola specifically gave scientists in ABUAD the marching order to get down to work as a matter of urgency and come up with a cure for COVID-19, assuring them that he would give them the necessary support to succeed. In a statement on Thursday by the institution’s Head of Corporate Affairs, Mr Tunde Olofintila, the ABUAD founder observed that “Nigerian academics often go to sleep after obtaining their PhDs when that should be the beginning of research and contributions to knowledge base and service to humanity as it is done in other parts of the world.” Addressing ABUAD scientists specifically, Babalola said, “I implore you all to go to work immediately. I promise to give all the necessary support. I am ready to provide the necessary funding and equipment for your research, so that you can come out with results that will be beneficial to humanity. “With our (ABUAD’s) huge investment in the sciences, medicine and engineering, we should be able to do something tangible and reasonable to combat COVID-19. It is common knowledge that we have invested heavily in the sciences, engineering and medicine. “When the Nigerian Society of Engineers came to our university in 2015, they marveled at the modern equipment in the 37 laboratories in our College of Engineering. They acknowledged that 75 per cent of the equipment are not available in any university in Nigeria. They went further to describe our engineering programme as ‘the template for engineering education in Nigeria.” According to Babalola, the university’s 400-bed multi-system hospital (ABUAD Teaching Hospital), has been acknowledged as the best in Africa and a facility billed to improve the health indices of Nigerians. In appreciation of the technical nature of a research towards finding a cure for COVID-19, Babalola called for collaborative efforts within and outside the university in tandem with global best practices to ensure that the dream of eradicating COVID-19 was realised in the country. The Provost, ABUAD College of Science, Prof. Abiodun Ojo, stressed the place of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Chemistry as well as Bio-technology in Babalola’s marching order, adding that the inter-collegiate system being run by the 10-year-old university would stand the initiative in good stead. Also, the university’s Head of Mechatronics Engineering and Director of Works, Dr Adeyinka Adeoye, who corroborated the interdisciplinary nature of research, said lecturers in the departments of Physics, Chemistry and Medicine could work closely with their counterparts in Engineering on it. Adeoye said collaborations of this nature would give birth to industry-based research to the advantage of the larger society. The Provost, ABUAD College of Engineering, Prof. Joseph Dada, expressed confidence that the modern equipment in the university’s College of Engineering, particularly the 37 well-equipped laboratories with state-of-the-art equipment from the US. Asia and Germany would be put to maximum use to accomplish the assignment. ABUAD Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Administration), Prof. Sylvester Ojo, assured Babalola that the concerned scientists would go to work immediately and report back to the founder within a short time. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   