Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Commissioner for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, has said the result of the coronavirus test conducted on Governor Kayode Fayemi has not been released. Yaya-Kolade said Fayemi had submitted himself for COVID-19 test and had since gone into self-isolation, stressing that the test became necessary because the governor recently was in contact with somebody that tested positive to the virus. Fayemi had on Wednesday tweeted, “I just took the COVID-19 test having gone into self-isolation since yesterday (Tuesday) evening. I’m asymptomatic and feel well, but I was in meetings with two people who had since tested positive. I look forward to an all clear”. The commissioner, who spoke in Ado Ekiti while giving an update on the COVID-19 situation in the state, said, “The only patient who tested positive to coronavirus in the state last week is in stable condition at the state isolation centre where he is undergoing treatment.” Yaya-Kolade said that the contacts had been identified and put under isolation with thorough monitoring and all of them are stable with no signs,” she said. The commissioner charged all residents of the state to live by sense of social responsibility in order to fight the scourge of coronavirus by maintaining social distancing order of the state. READ ALSO: FG searches for 4,370 contacts as coronavirus cases hit 65 Yaya-Kolade charged all banks and petrol stations in the state to device measures to ensure social distancing order and care for their customers through provision of canopy and probably engage in numbering from 1-20 for easy operations. Fayemi’s wife in self-isolation Also, Fayemi’s wife, Bisi, said she had been in self-isolation since she arrived in Nigeria from the United Kingdom on March 19. The governor’s wife made the disclosure in her write up entitled ‘Self Isolation’ in her Above Whispers series. Ekiti to screen travellers at borders Also speaking, the state Commissioner for Environment, Gbenga Agbeyo, said measures had been put in place to ensure that travellers coming into Ekiti were checked at the entry points to reduce the possibility of contracting the virus and guarantee the safety of the state residents. The commissioner said, “To decongest the Atikankan area population, the government is planning to stop all business activities in the area, work on how to ensure voluntary  evacuation to Shasha Market or forcible ejection if resisted and eventually bring down the shanties as well stationing security agents there.” The commissioner noted that the taskforce would be moving round the markets from Friday to ensure strict compliance with government order on market closure. The directive on Wednesday by the state government that all markets except those selling food and essential items be closed down took effect from 5pm on Thursday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 