Deji Lambo There was panic in the Ajegunle-Apapa area of Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government Area of Lagos State recently when hoodlums known as the Awala Boys clashed and allegedly killed a photographer, Peter-Greg Edogbeji. It was learnt that during the clash, which started around 6pm, the Awala Boys also took advantage of the tension in the community to rob unsuspecting members of the public of their valuables, injured scores of residents, including the traditional ruler of the Oke-Ira community, Taiye Layeni, who reportedly escaped death by a whisker. PUNCH Metro gathered that the Awala Boys, a syndicate that specialises in stealing phones and using SIM cards to hack into bank accounts, started clashing with each other when the state government banned motorcycle and tricycle operations in some parts of the state to curb illegal activities. Before the ban, it was learnt that the syndicate was using motorcycles and tricycles to move in the various communities to commit crimes. A resident, Michael Jeje, said the Awala Boys’ atrocities were concentrated on the Ajegunle-Apapa area and due to the limited scope of operation, constant clashes often ensue among members of the syndicate. During Tuesday’s clash, Jeje said the traditional ruler of the community contacted the Layeni Police Division to intervene, adding that members of the syndicate allegedly attacked the monarch and his entourage, injured scores of residents, and killed Edogbeji. He said, “The Awala Boys specialise in stealing phones, buying SIM cards and swapping of accounts. They have a network across Lagos State, but 90 per cent of the boys are based in Ajegunle-Apapa area. They are different from the Awawa Boys, who operate mostly in Agege. “When the government banned motorcycle and tricycle operations in some parts of the state, their operations were confined to Ajegunle. “What led to the clash on Tuesday, March 24, 2020, around 4pm was that a member of the syndicate, John Bam-Bam, and two of his friends were on a motorcycle and were coming from the Okoya area when some of the Awala Boys threatened to kill Bam-Bam for outsmarting them in a deal. “But they escaped and annoyed by the incident, John Bam-Bam mobilised about 40 members for a reprisal and attacked some of the boys, who threatened to kill him on the Okoya Bridge. Also, the bridge was locked down during the clash and motorists could not use it to connect to their various destinations.” READ ALSO: How my assistant and I escaped Ondo explosion – Truck driver A member of the Aiyetoro Security Committee, Joseph Mazoje, said the traditional ruler; the Director-General of the Aiyetoro Security Committee, Toyin Olusanya, and others were holding a meeting when the clash started, adding that to restore normalcy in the area, Layeni alerted the police to the situation. Mazoje alleged that the police abandoned the victims when they came to the scene of the incident to arrest the perpetrators. He stated, “Edogbeji was the secretary of the Aiyetoro Security Committee and a photographer by profession. The hoodlums had been perpetrating crimes in the community for a long time. On that fateful day, Olusanya, the traditional ruler and other stakeholders were holding a meeting inside the Ajeromi Plaza with some of our colleagues, including Edogbeji, when people started shouting around the Okoya roundabout. “Over 40 of the boys, who were armed with cutlasses, started attacking people and the traditional ruler called the Layeni Police Station and police personnel came with two patrol vehicles. When Layeni saw the policemen, he, Olusanya and some of our members, including Edogbeji, assisted them in chasing away the Awala Boys and the police retreated and drove away. “Layeni and the others ran into an ambush laid by the Awala Boys, who started attacking them. Others escaped, but Layeni and Edogbeji were severely injured with cutlasses. They were later rushed to hospital, where Edogbeji died. We want the government to intervene so that peace can reign in the community.” Footage of the attack which was obtained by PUNCH Metro showed 10 suspected members of the Awala Boys dealing cutlass blows on a man later identified as Edogbeji in his head and body till he lost consciousness. A picture, which was also provided, showed Layeni soaked in his own blood. Layeni, in another picture, had his hands, face and head stitched and bandaged at the Beebat Hospital on Ojo Road, Ajegunle. However, efforts to get Layeni’s account of the incident proved abortive as he declined to speak to our correspondent when he was contacted on the telephone. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bala Elkana, said one person was killed during the clash, adding that a manhunt had been launched for the perpetrators. Elkana stated, “There is a platform created mainly for security and involves people discussing security issues that concern the Ajeromi community. We have the police on the platform and I am also there to monitor what is going on and usually give suggestions. The youth understand that those committing crimes are young people from the community. “So, the youth came together to create tactical approaches to tackling the few young men, who are giving them trouble in the community, and that has helped overtime with the community policing approach and a series of operations that have been carried out there by the police and other sister agencies, including the traditional ruler, who was injured. He has been a strong part of the struggle. “From a critical perspective, these Awala Boys were members of a gang working together and pursuing their criminal interest before they had issues and split into two groups and became rivals. The two factions started having supremacy clashes and the unfortunate incident happened recently, where our division at Layeni got a distress call that these factions of Awala Boys were attacking each other on the street. The Divisional Police Officer mobilised personnel to the scene. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Residents flee Katsina community after one dies in pro-Juma’at riot “But, some of the partners working with us decided to advance without waiting for the enforcement team to come. These Awala Boys were fighting themselves with weapons. Armed policemen were to step in instead of how our partners handled the issue. The essence of having civilians in the forum is not to take the police job upon themselves, but to pass information across to the police to do the job. “From the CCTV footage we reviewed, the partners were able to chase the Awala Boys to a distance without knowing that they were in large numbers. So, the Awala Boys summoned the courage and chased them back and in the process, attacked the man (Edogbeji). He was rushed to hospital, where he died. “We have analysed the CCTV footage and the injured traditional ruler can recognise some of the hoodlums, who perpetrated the crime. We have launched a manhunt for them in a bid to prosecute them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com