Titi Oluwabusi is an assistant professor in the Department of Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, in the United States of America. She tells ALEXANDER OKERE about the causes, management and treatment of chronic or prolonged hiccups What is a hiccup? Hiccup is derived from the Latin word, ‘singult,’ meaning a gasp. It happens when the muscles between our chest and abdominal region, called the diaphragm, and the muscles between our ribs, go into involuntary spasm, causing us to breathe or gasp suddenly, against our voice box, making the ‘hic’ sound. When should one consider their hiccups as chronic? We typically use the words, ‘prolonged hiccups’ to describe chronic hiccups. These include all hiccups that last longer than 48 hours. Most hiccups last less than 48 hours. When they last longer than this and for up to a month, we call them “persistent” hiccups. Hiccups lasting more than one month are called intractable hiccups. What are the causes? There are multiple diseases that can cause hiccups. Any process or disease that irritates the medulla oblongata of the brain or that affects nerves which supply our diaphragm or throat and stomach muscles can cause hiccups. Such a process may not be a disease in itself and sometimes, they are. For example, eating too much, drinking soft drinks, chewing a lot of gum and smoking all irritate our throats and stomach muscles and can cause hiccups. Stomach ulcer, stroke, malaria and cancer can cause hiccups. Some surgeries are only done after putting people to sleep. The process of anesthesia and intubation to achieve that can create irritation to those nerves and cause hiccups after the surgery, just to name a few. Can excessive cough cause chronic hiccups? Cough, per se, is not the cause of hiccups but whatever caused the cough itself, could be a cause of hiccups. Should a person having such hiccups from excessive cough be worried? Yes. If hiccups last longer than two days, they become a cause for concern. Can chronic hiccups be diagnosed? A hiccup, itself, does not need any special test for diagnosis. It is mainly by observation and any person can tell if their hiccups last too long. When should hiccups be considered a serious problem that requires a visit to a doctor? Any hiccup lasting more than two days requires a visit to a doctor. Can they be described as serious and common health challenges? Most hiccups are harmless and will disappear by themselves within 48 hours, like those caused by eating too fast or drinking a lot of carbonated drinks. Such hiccups are common health challenges, but they are not considered serious health challenges. Those hiccups that last for weeks and months may be serious health challenges. They are rare and not common. They can affect anywhere from one to nine per cent of cancer patients. What are the effects of continuous hiccups on the health? Prolonged or continuous hiccups can interrupt sleep, eating, drinking, and conversations. They can cause tiredness, create pain, cause mental stress, or affect moods. In severe cases, they cause malnutrition, loss of weight, dehydration, and sometimes make people pass out. Are there certain health conditions that can put one at risk of having chronic hiccups? Yes. Some health condition can increase risk of hiccups. Some of them are kidney failure, diabetes and tuberculosis. Do you think there are wrong perceptions about chronic hiccups among Nigerians? Misperception occurs about hiccups among Nigerians. Someone that has persistent hiccups and is unable to sleep well or eat well, or sometimes even pass out, may be considered to suffer from spiritual attacks. This is not specific to hiccups only and abounds with different diseases. Education is the key to addressing some of these misconceptions. Can chronic hiccups be easily treated with home remedies? Yes. Some remedies are the first step in treating hiccups. Gargling water, sipping a glass of cold water, swallowing a teaspoon of dry sugar, rubbing on one side of the neck, leaning forward while folding our knees to our chest are some of the ways we can abort hiccups, just to name a few. Now, a hiccup that is chronic may not respond to some of these remedies. Are there doctors specialised in the treatment of the condition? Persistent hiccups may be a sign that something is wrong somewhere. Since there are many different causes, the cause of the hiccups determines the type of specialist that someone needs. In rare cases that a cause is not found, a surgeon may be needed. What are the different ways chronic hiccups can be treated by a medical doctor? A persistent hiccup that does not respond to common home therapies may need medication by a medical doctor. Again, the medication depends on the cause. For example, hiccups caused by stomach ulcer will need ulcer medications but hiccups due to disease in the brain may require anti-convulsants (convulsion medication) or anti-depressants (depression medication). And the list goes on. Can the condition require surgery? Yes. Surgery may rarely be needed in some situations as earlier mentioned. Such surgery targets the nerves that supply the diaphragm, which is the muscle that separates the chest from the abdomen region. Can chronic hiccups lead to death? So far, there is no report of hiccups leading directly or indirectly to death. Hiccups, just like pain, tell us there is a problem somewhere. The cause of the hiccups on the other hand, may cause death. For example, some cancers may present as hiccups and such cancers may cause death. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  