The world-leading smart device brand OPPO today announced the launch of its all-round 5G flagship Find X2 series. The much-anticipated global launch will be hosted online on OPPO’s YouTube channel as the official launch which was due to take place in Barcelona alongside the MWC event in late February was rescheduled to an online launch due to rising global concerns around the Coronavirus outbreak. The online launch is set to take place on the 6th of March 2020 at 4:30PM GMT+1 and can be streamed live via- https://youtu.be/yTSZeiaSLxU Exploration is at the heart of OPPO’s DNA, which is why the business is constantly innovating, exploring new possibilities and pushing boundaries to deliver the best experiences to its customers. This remains through as OPPO looks to #Uncover the ultimate, by creating a groundbreaking smartphone experience with the new OPPO Find X2 series. Taking into consideration customer feedback on all its products, the brand has heavily invested in Research and Development to produce the new OPPO Find X2 series. This stays true to OPPO’s endless pursuit of a better smartphone, especially in the era of 5G. The OPPO Find X2 series will feature the most advanced screen OPPO has developed to date, with emphasis on resolution, screen refresh rate, color, and high dynamic range, bringing users the most clear, accurate, smooth, and comfortable screen experience. The Find X2 Pro will be equipped with a customized flagship image sensor and will feature OPPO’s most advanced photography technologies to date, delivering a premium image quality and focusing performance for users. Additionally, Find X2 series features Qualcomm’s 5G-flagship chip Snapdragon 865, which supports SA/NSA dual-module network that truly brings an exceptional 5G experience to reality. About OPPO OPPO is a top 5 global innovative smartphone brand according to IDC. As at today, OPPO provides cutting edge smartphones to over 200 million people all over the world. OPPO operates in more than 40 countries of the world, with 6 research centers worldwide and an international design center in London. OPPO has more than 40,000 employees are dedicated to creating new experiences and greater value for customers around the world. OPPO is popular for its stylish smartphone designs, quality photography experience and the status symbol it provides to its users.