Samuel Awoyinfa The First City Monument Bank says from this month till October, 2020, some of its customers will emerge as millionaires while some others will win exciting prizes. This, it added, was the continuation of its ‘FCMB millionaire promo’, which had entered Season 7, a statement from the bank indicated. This it said followed the huge success recorded and the positive impact of previous editions of the promo since it commenced in 2013. The statement read in part, “The ’FCMB Millionaire Promo Season 7’, which will run from March to October 2020, will produce another set of 16 lucky customers of the bank as millionaires through winnings of cash ranging from N1m to N2m. “In addition, 152 LED televisions, 152 generators, 912 smart phones and 760 decoders, are to be won.” The bank said the winners would emerge through electronic selection of all qualified customers at bi-monthly zonal and regional draws to be held in May, July, September and November this year. The promo it further stated was designed to provide extra empowerment, reward and value for customers of the bank, while encouraging financial inclusion and savings culture. It added, “The promo is targeted at all segments of the society, especially existing and potential savings account customers of the bank. This, however, excludes salary and domiciliary account holders. “To participate in the promo,  existing or new customers are to increase their respective balances by N10,000 in any of the eligible FCMB savings accounts and maintain it for 30 days to qualify for the bi-monthly zonal and regional electronic selection of winners, where the star prize of N1mand other fantastic prizes will be won. “Multiple savings of N10,000 will increase the probability of winning. To qualify for the grand finale draws in November 2020, where four customers will win N2m each, existing and new customers are to increase their balances with at least N50,000 and maintain it for 30 days. Multiple savings of N50,000 will also increase the chances of winning.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  