Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit has demolished some illegal structures around public schools in Mile 2, along the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, following the expiration of the seven-day removal notice given to their owners and occupiers. PUNCH Metro had reported that the Chairman of the agency, Olayinka Egbeyemi, who gave the notice during a meeting with the owners and occupiers of the illegal structures and sectional heads of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, ordered that all shanties, mechanic workshops, petty traders’ shops, containerised kiosks and commercial bus parks must be removed within the stipulated period. Egbeyemi stated that the occupiers of the structures had littered the environment, including the surroundings of public schools, with refuse, used tyres/metals and abandoned vehicles. According to him, the clean-up of the affected areas is to ensure a clean environment and a clampdown on the activities of criminals in the community. He said, “These removed illegal structures and shanties were identified for harbouring criminal elements, who dispossess unsuspecting members of the public of their valuables, and also serve as outlets for the sale of illegal drugs like tramadol, codeine, skunk, cannabis and mixed liquor to miscreants. “Lagos is the most populous state in Nigeria as well as the economic heartbeat. As such, the zero tolerance for all forms of crime and criminality by the present administration will be sustained; so, I implore all owners and occupiers of illegal structures and shanties around public schools across the state to immediately remove them before the exercise reaches their various areas as anyone caught will be seriously dealt with in accordance with the law.” Egbeyemi added that the agency had commenced the verification of affected victims with valid documents for the payment of compensation as approved by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 