Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday received the management team of Lafarge Africa who visited him  to  commend his administration’s effort to combat coronavirus spread. The Italian man who brought the virus to Nigeria reportedly  visited Ewekoro community in Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State for a business transaction with Lafarge. Sanwo-Olu, while receiving the team led by the Country Chief Executive Officer, Khaled El Dokani, at  Lagos House, Marina, praised the company for its  efforts towards stemming the spread of the virus after the first index case. He commended  Lafarge  for helping  to check the disease from wreaking havoc  in Nigeria. The governor said,  “It is very unfortunate that we have it (coronavirus) in our country but I want to thank you for the collaboration and all the efforts between our sister state (Ogun), your organisation and of course the Federal Government and how we’ve been able to address and curtail the incident thus far. “We can only but continue to work together in harmony, we can only continue to understand and appreciate that we are the same but we are only different sides of  a coin. “The bottom line is we want to continue to provide safety and improve the quality of life of  our people: whilst you do that for your stakeholders we do that for the entire state and the nation. We’ll continue to see reasons and a means of engagement and collaboration. We’ll continue to do that.” Khalid said he was confident that the disease would  soon be a thing of the past. He said,  “We want to extend our deepest appreciation for the support we received from the governor  in managing the unfortunate situation that took place at our Ewekoro plant and we would really want to express our gratitude for all the support, the solidarity, the professionalism and the one team approach in overcoming such situation which we all hope will soon be over.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  