Samson Folarin The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency and the Lagos State University, Ojo, have agreed to start research activities for “environmental sustainability and sociological development.” The General Manager, LASEPA, Dr Dolapo Fasawe, said the coming together of the two institutions would boost the fight against climate change and support the state’s environmental policies. A statement on Sunday said the management of LASU, including the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, and the Director of the varsity’s Centre for Environmental Studies and Sustainable Development, Prof. Adeola Animashaun, had paid a visit to Fasawe at his office. During the interaction, the two institutions agreed to collaborate for a better environment. The LASEPA general manager said the agency was already working with the World Bank to provide air monitoring stations to generate data for policy making and global warming indices. According to Fasawe, LASEPA’s partnership with the Vehicle Inspection Service had started yielding results with the reduction of carbon emission, adding that 6,500 vehicles had started running on gas. “We have also been championing the reduction in plastic waste by banning single use of plastic bags on our premises, with plans of extending it to other sectors.  This move has reduced the solid waste the agency generates and it indirectly saves cost,” she added. Fagbohun said the university would impact the agency in terms of capacity building activities. “Based on technological advances, the university plans to create an app that measures emission level of a vehicle per movement, works with vehicular registration and holistically prompts the  owner of the vehicle to go and service the vehicle as and when due,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 