Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun on Tueaday berated  his  Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Dr Kehinde Oluwadare, for his alleged attack on Chief Olusegun Osoba, an ex-governor of the state. Abiodun  apologised  to Osoba   for  Oluwadare’s comments he described as careless and uncomplimentary. The commissioner was  quoted to have described Osoba and some past leaders  as  failed leaders. Our correspondent learnt  that Oluwadare  was advised to excuse himself from Tuesday’s  executive meeting. Oluwadare  reportedly said when  some  party leaders in the state paid him a visit, “In 1999, Bola Ahmed Tinubu  (the All Progressives Congress National Leader) came on board with the likes of (Vice-President  Yemi) Osinbajo, (Ekiti State Governor) Kayode Fayemi, (Babatunde) Fashola and Rauf Aregbesola, (Olorunnimbe) Mamora, Muiz Banire, Tokunbo (Afikuyomi) and, Musiliu Obanikoro)  Koro, you know all these people. And till today, all these people are doing well in their respective fields.” He added, “And we should all know that a leader without a successor is a failure… I will say the only person I can see with Osoba is Segun Adesegun. Aside from Segun Adesegun, no other person.” The report was widely circulated on  social media, forcing Abiodun  to order a   rejoinder  to  dissociate  himself from his commissioner’s  comments. In a  statement by his  Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin,  the governor denied knowledge of the commissioner’s action. The statement read “The comments were never a true reflection of the disposition of both the governor and indeed the government and the high esteem that Chief Olusegun Osoba is held. “There is no doubt that Chief Olusegun Osoba’s repute is timeless and transcends Ogun State and indeed many spheres he has stamped his authority for him to be  the  subject of such a careless remark. “For emphasis, Prince Dapo Abiodun totally disssociates himself and his administration from the unsavoury comments of the commissioner and reassures all that this unfortunate incident will not in any way detract from the very cordial relationship between Baba and himself.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 