Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Federal Government has evacuated stranded members of staff of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, who were drafted to Brazzaville, the Republic of Congo to undergo a special capacity building course with the World Health Organisation. The medical team was on a training programme to expand their frontiers of knowledge on coronavirus for deployment in the country. The Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of the Congo, Deborah Iliya, said that the medical team had been stranded following the closure of air and land borders by Congo Brazzaville ostensibly, to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The envoy in a statement on Sunday commended the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) and his government over “the systemic, practical and sincere efforts”  being taken to end the scourge of COVID-19 facing Nigeria. It read, “The medical team had been stranded following the closure of air and land borders by the host country. “In the same vein, the Ambassador, on behalf of the Government of Nigeria, has commended the government and the good people of the Republic of Congo for the singular act of solidarity and standing on good relations by the temporal opening of her airport to facilitate the departure of the team on March 26, 2020.” Iliya said the action of the Congolese authorities had further strengthened the bilateral relations between the two countries. The diplomat noted that the President of the Republic of Congo, Denis Nguesso, had put in stringent measures aimed at ending the spread of the virus, adding that he had embarked on sensitisation campaigns. She noted that the public had also been mobilised for strict observation and compliance with all medical advisory and lockdown directives. She added, “Essential commodity stores like foods and pharmaceutical stores are exempted, and are allowed to operate for the survival of the people.  “A high level of compliance as regards laid down rules have been consistent. I convey our concerns to all those who have been affected by the pandemic virus.” 