Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The debate on a bill for an act to establish the South-West Development Commission caused a division among senators on Wednesday. The bill, sponsored by a former governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun, and all the South-West senators, however, scaled second reading. Amosun said the proposed commission would act as a catalyst to develop the commercial and industrial potential of the South-West. He said it would be funded and managed from allocation of the federation. The former governor said the agency would also develop the agricultural and industrial sectors of the South-West. Amosun said it would also tackle any other related educational backwardness as well as security and development challenges and other connected matters. Two senators, Adamu Bulkachuwa from Bauchi State and Peter Nwaoboshi (Delta North), opposed the bill. They argued that the South-West did not need such commission, as the zone was already ahead of others in term of development. They added that the commissions approved for other zones came into place because of certain circumstances. Bulkachuwa said, “This chamber should not be the chamber where we will be pushing for the disintegration of Nigeria. “It was first about Amotekun, now there is South-West Development Commission. “All the other commissions that were approved by this Senate, the NDDC and NEDC, were children of circumstances. “The North-East was devastated by Boko Haram and all the wars, they need rehabilitation. “Niger Delta, because of the oil exploration activities the livelihood of the people there was rendered almost useless, they could not farm, they could not fish. So, the NDDC was created. “I do not see a reason why the South-West Development Commission should be created because South-West is the most developed sub-region in Nigeria. “Before the civil war, all shipping activities were either in Port Harcourt or Calabar, but because of the civil war, all shipping activities were diverted to Lagos. “Tin Can Island was built, Apapa Port was built and up till this moment, shipping has not reverted to Port Harcourt, or Calabar or Onne. “I think this is going to be a very dangerous bill. It means every zone of Nigeria will now be agitating for commissions. “I do not support it and I urge other senators not to support the bill.” READ ALSO: Bayelsa Assembly okays N2.9bn for vehicle purchase for Diri, others Nwaoboshi said, “If we balkanise this country, we will be held responsible. We shouldn’t sit here and divide this country. The foundation we are laying here is a foundation to balkanise the country.” However, Senator Surajudeen Basiru (Osun Central) said the bill should not be considered along ethnic line. He added that there should not be unnecessary agitation as the South-West has contributed to the development of the country. Also supporting the bill, Senator Adamu Aliero from Kebbi State said every zone had peculiar problems. He added that every geopolitical zone should come up with development programmes. He, however, noted that the South-West “remains the most developed region in the country.” The bill scaled second reading and was referred to the Committee on Establishment and Public Services. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 