Nike Popoola First City Monument Bank says it has opened an ultra-modern cash centre within the Lagos State Abattoir Complex in Agege. A statement said its customers and Nigerians in general resident or running businesses in Agege, Oko-Oba, Abule-Egba, Ojokoro and environs now had an opportunity to further enjoy the offerings of the bank It stated that the opening of the bank’s new cash centre was in line with its expansion approach and commitment towards bringing banking services directly to the doorsteps of its existing and potential customers. “The location of the branch takes into consideration the convenience of residents and businesses in these communities and would go a long way to promote financial inclusion in the country,” it added. Apart from the team of experienced financial experts deployed in the cash centre, it stated that it was equipped with top class traditional banking and digital infrastructure that would ensure convenient banking transactions and sundry financial service delivery to customers in a relaxed and tranquil environment. The bank said the inauguration was attended by top dignitaries, including officials of the Lagos State Government, trade unions, their members, and customers of the bank, among others. In his address at the ceremony, the Divisional Head, Service Management & Technology of FCMB, Mr Oluwakayode Adigun, said with the opening of the cash centre, individuals and businesses now had an opportunity to access another convenient location for their transactions, with the aim to further enjoy the valued-added offerings which the bank had been known for since its establishment 37 years ago. The Regional Head, Lagos, FCMB, Mr Oliver Opara, reaffirmed the bank’s commitment to grow its network to meet the individual and business aspirations of its customer base across segments. ‘’We consider our presence at the Agege abattoir as another veritable opportunity to further cement our relationship with Lagos and in turn, drive development in this part of the state,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 