Johnny Edward Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi are major doubts for Nigeria’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Sierra Leone, Sports Extra reports. The pair is at risk of contracting the coronavirus after three Leicester City first-team players showed symptoms of the dreaded virus on Thursday. Both players have since been tested for the virus but await the outcome of the result on Friday (today). The unnamed Leicester City trio has been self-isolating as a result, says Rodgers. It is understood the players’ symptoms have not yet reached the threshold for coronavirus testing but they will continue to be assessed. Speaking at his press conference on Thursday afternoon, Brendan Rodgers said, “We’re taking all the necessary precautions that everyone is doing. “We’ve had a few players that have shown symptoms and signs, so we’re following procedure really with them. They’ve been kept away at this moment from the rest of the squad. We’ll see how that develops. “We have to wait and see (if it will keep them out of the weekend’s game). It’s about having the agility to react. This is about health. This is more than football. These are players and their families and children. So with any risks that are there, for their health and everyone else’s, we have to mitigate against that. “A few players who have shown symptoms, we’ve self-isolated them. We’ll see how that develops over the next couple of days. “We’ve got three (players in self-isolation).” Reports suggest all Premier League matches could have to be played behind closed doors in a bid to prevent the spread of the virus. But if players test positive for Covid-19, games could end up being postponed. Also, the duo, William Troost-Ekong and Ola Aina,are major doubts for the double-header scheduled for March 27 and 31, after Italian Prime Minister, Giuseppe Conte, issued a ban on flights in and out of Italy. Both defenders are based in Italy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  