Our Reporters The leadership of the Lagos State House of Assembly on Thursday lifted the suspension slammed on four members of the House. Announcing the suspension during the plenary, the Speaker, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, said the Governor’s Advisory Council held a meeting on Tuesday at the Lagos House, Marina, to intervene in the crisis. The GAC, comprising prominent leaders of the state All Progressives Congress and considered the party’s highest decision-making body in the state, met with Obasa and the four aggrieved lawmakers to resolve the crisis. The meeting was presided over by the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The Assembly on March 9, 2020, removed two principal officers Rotimi Abiru (Chief Whip) and Olumuyiwa Jimoh (Deputy Majority Leader). It also suspended two members, Moshood Oshun and Raheem Kazeem, indefinitely from the assembly over what it described as gross misconduct, insubordination and acts capable of destabilising the assembly. The four lawmakers had been inaccessible to the assembly complex and their offices since then. During the pronouncement on Thursday, Obasa was however silent on whether the two removed principal officers would be reinstated to their positions upon their return to the assembly. Asked about the fate of the two principal officers during a telephone conversation with one of  our correspondents, Chairman, House Committee on Information and Strategy, Mr Tunde Braimoh, only said, “The Speaker made himself clear on the floor of the House.’’ He noted that the House was busy at the moment to give legal backing to the bill before it on the decisions taken and the ones yet taken by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on ways to check the spread of the coronavirus in the state. Braimoh said political parties had roles to play in the affairs of their members, adding that the APC had done just that by intervening in the assembly crisis. He added, “Conflicts are part of politics. The House will continue to forge ahead. The House is working and we are not distracted by the unsavoury events of the past. We pride ourselves as a 40-member family of wise men and women. We are not saying we are infallible …’’ By Wale Oyewale, Ibadan Gbenga Adeniji and Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   