The Enugu State Ministry of Culture and Tourism has concluded plans for an all-encompassing talent hunt after seven years. The talent hunt is expected to hold during the Easter period, according to the News Agency of Nigeria. The state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Mr Ugonna Ibe, said this while briefing newsmen on the forthcoming Enugu Easter Jam Blast on Sunday in Enugu. Ibe, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr Cosmos Obioma, said the talent hunt would help discover budding talents and give them a platform to be groomed to stardom. He stated, “We want to discover people from various areas, which cut across seven different and unique artistic walks of life. “Through their discovery and grooming as well as stardom, they will be empowered to be on their own and create more opportunities for other Nigerians.” The Consultant to the ministry, Mr Kelvin Obioma, said the talent hunt entitled: ‘Enugu to the World Talent Unseen’, would be concluded before the April 13 Enugu Easter Jam Blast. Obioma, who is the Chief Executive of Encyclotainment Limited, said it was coming after seven years that such a talent discovery was last held in the state. He said the hunt would be in seven different categories of music, comedy, dance, modelling, Disc Jockeying, drama acting and art. He noted that entries would be open to all Nigerians of all ages in each of the seven categories at the rate of N3,000 non-refundable fee for form to be accessed through the ministry and Access Bank. Obioma, whose stage name is Daddy Saint, said on April 4, three of the seven categories, music, comedy and dance, would have their audition. He said at the end, the best three in each of the categories would emerge. He stated, “On April 8, the remaining four categories will also have their audition/test and at the end, the best three in each of the three categories will emerge. “On April 10, the final audition will be done among the three qualified artistes from each of the seven categories for one artiste to be picked for each of the seven categories that will perform with invited superstars on April 13 during the Enugu Easter Jam Blast.” ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   