Samson Folarin The Senate Committee on Science and Technology on Tuesday called off its meeting on the ousted Director General of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi, Chima Igwe. The PUNCH learnt that most of the participants had arrived in Abuja before they were told that the meeting would no longer hold. A source said the development might not be unconnected with a report by our correspondent on the suspected plan to reinstate Igwe. The 57-year-old was removed as the head of the Federal Government agency after the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission indicted him in a report. The ICPC had said that Igwe had yet to complete a doctoral programme he claimed he finished in 2001. He had been promoted several times based on the phantom PhD. However, the embattled official returned to the school, Universite d’Abomey Calavi, in Benin Republic, where he was given a document stating he completed the programme in February 2020. Igwe subsequently petitioned the Ministry of Science and Technology, Secretary to the Government of the Federation and the Senate, asking that he should be reinstated to his position. The PUNCH had reported that an influential minister and some senators had agreed to reinstate him. A source said members of the FIIRO governing board, the new acting DG, Dr Agnes Asagbra, the FIIRO admin officer and others had got to Abuja when they were informed that the meeting had been called off. “The board chairman travelled from Kano to Abuja; a female member of the governing board had also moved from Lagos to the place. The new acting DG had arrived since yesterday (Monday). Igwe was also there. They had all been assured that the meeting would hold, only for the Senate to call off the meeting. “It appeared your last report jolted them. They were not expecting it. You exposed their agenda. After that report, nobody will want to try it. But it is a waste of taxpayers’ money. Imagine all the resources that would have been expended on the trips,” the source said. A top official, who did not want to be identified, said no reason was given for the suspension of the meeting. The source noted that everyone left Abuja disappointed. “You pre-empted them with that report. The facts are there: black and white. We only received information from the clerk that the meeting had been called off. When we asked when the next meeting would be, they said it was indefinite,” the official said. Another source said the Secretary to the Government of the Federation had written that the board had the power to appoint the new acting DG. “That may have also broken the backs of those who wanted him to return,” he added. The PUNCH learnt that workers were expecting the outcome of the disciplinary committee sitting over Igwe’s case. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 