The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Transmission Company of Nigeria, Usman Mohammed, speaks on why Nigeria requires a secondary power reserve, among other industry matters in this interview with Okechukwu Nnodim Did TCN submit request for extraordinary tariff review to the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission? Let me make some clarification here. A recent report indicated that TCN submitted a case for extraordinary tariff and it was turned down by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission. That is not the correct position. We didn’t submit a case for extraordinary tariff review. What we requested is a provision for auxiliary services. By way of explanation, auxiliary services are services that are supposed to be provided by the market to ensure that we have a stable grid. And one of them is what we call the secondary reserve, also known as spinning reserve. The secondary reserve is supposed to take care of grid stability that cannot be handled by the primary reserve. The primary reserve is the frequency control, and we fought very hard to ensure that Nigeria got it. Before we came in to TCN, there was no primary reserve. The primary reserve is what will take care of power demand and supply so that all generators that are connected to the grid in line with the grid code will put their machines on what we call Free Governor. As of today, I am happy to tell you that apart from three small generators on the grid, which we have written letters to and informed them that they are due for disconnection, all other generators are on Free Governor in Nigeria. This is a significant achievement. Tell us more about the secondary reserve and why Nigeria needs it. Let’s take, for example, if a generator carrying about 300 megawatts of power eventually goes off, or a transmission line carrying about 400MW trips off as a result of bushfire, the secondary reserve is supposed to support the grid in such instances. This is so that there will be a balance in the demand and supply of power. That is what we are requesting and we are not requesting it for only TCN but for the industry. Whenever there is a system collapse, is it only TCN that records losses? No. Everybody loses and it brings a lot of strain on TCN equipment, distribution networks and generation facilities. So it is the request of the industry, but the reason why we are making it is because we are the ones operating the grid. Otherwise, it is for everybody. We have made adequate clarification to all stakeholders and they have been clarified. Right now, the general consensus is that most of them have understood what we are requesting and it is not a revenue for TCN but a service that is supposed to be provided to help further stabilise the grid. Are power users the ones to pay tariff for this service? Of course, they are the ones to pay for it. But the fact is that if you are paying to improve the quality of a service, I think it is important to pay. However, we have to understand that this is a standard all over the world, especially if you want to have a stable grid. So, if you want Nigeria to be like countries with stable power, we have to get this. If you go to Europe and America, you find that their supplies don’t go off. If you go to Ghana, too, you will see some level of stability and this is because they are paying the right thing. So, this is one of the right things that we need to do. And another thing that we stakeholders have to support is the issue of Supervisory Contol and Data Aquisition for the efficient management of the grid. Many stakeholders in the market see this as a TCN thing, but it is a service that is going to further help us in stabilising the grid. Earlier, we talked about a situation where peradventure a generator goes off. In this instance, the spinning reserve is supposed to come in to stabilise the grid. But in the first place, is the generator supposed to go out? No. Any generator that goes out and is not within the planned maintenance submitted to the National Control Centre and approved by NCC, that generator is supposed to be penalised. But how do you penalise them? You only penalise them if you can see them. And the only way you can see them is for the register of events to be in place. This is the SCADA. Right now, all stakeholders in the sector are in support that we have a functional SCADA. Otherwise, we cannot operate the grid efficiently like other countries’ grids are operated. TCN has procured six generation companies to provide the secondary reserve. Which of the Gencos are involved and how capable are they? The six Gencos include some hydropower generators and the contracted generators such as Azura Power. Others are Mainstream, that is Kainji, Transcorp, Geregu Gas and Odukpami power generators. They were selected after technical evaluation of their capacity to provide the spinning reserve. But what I want to tell you is that we have tested all the generators and we have seen that they are capable of providing the service. The only challenge we have as of today is the fact that since we don’t have full functional SCADA, some of them (generators) cannot be seen. The current SCADA can see some of them but cannot see others. How do we put in a mechanism to be able to monitor what they are providing? Don’t forget that spinning reserve does not mean an increase in the quantum of power generated by a generator. It does not work like that. Rather, the increased power generated by the Genco has to respond to frequency changes. So, even though we have contracted you as a generator, are you increasing your power generation according to the contract and in line with the changes of the frequency? This is because if the frequency dips as a result of the loss of power load, your generator is supposed to respond to that. Now, is your generator capable of responding to that? That is why our engineers visit the stations to find out how we can monitor this. If we are not sure that we can monitor it, we are not going to deploy it. Will the spinning reserve address load rejection issues? For the load rejection, I think NERC is addressing this. The commission has already done an order that is mandating Discos that they are going to pay for capacity and I know that this is going to address that issue. Very soon, you will see that this load rejection issue will become a thing of the past. The load rejection problem is actually because the Discos can drop load and increase it at will without being penalised for anything. But now that NERC is putting this structure to ensure that there is capacity charge for those that refuse to take the load, I think that very soon, you will see that this load rejection matter is going to be a thing of the past. There is the argument that the excess quantum of power being generated should be converted to spinning reserve. How possible is this? The spinning reserve is not categorised under capacity. It is a provision for service. We are not paying providers of the reserve for the energy, we are only paying them premium for providing that service. And the service will be called on when it is needed. It is not that you are deploying the service for it to be running all the time. So, we are paying you for making that service available. That is how it is. So, it is not that we should convert the excess generation. Of course, if you don’t have excess generation, how can you provide spinning reserve? Every generator that is providing spinning reserve is providing over and above what it can provide to the grid now. But where actually do we get the excess generation? Currently, we still have problem of gas all over the place because the market is not working. Why is the market not working? I always say that as Nigerians, we have to take the decision that we need to make the market work. We need to move the government out of the market. The market needs to be driven like a sustainable industry without government. We need to take that decision, otherwise we will continue to pump money into this sector and still it will not work. The sector is supposed to be governed by contract so that people who cannot perform can be liquidated based on contract. If we don’t do that, we will continue to waste time. Also, I want to tell you that there is no relationship between poverty and the payment for electricity. What we need to do is to provide electricity to our people 24 hours, give them means of measurement so that they have electricity in their houses. Let them decide when to put on or put off their lights and gadgets, meaning that we should provide meters and not supply power to anybody without a meter. Also, as the Chairman of the West Africa Power Pool, I still say that there is no relationship between poverty and the payment for electricity. This is because people in places that are very poor such as Burkina Faso buy electricity at very expansive rates. Also, if you go to places in Nigeria where operators are deploying mini-grids and solar, you will see that people there are paying up to N100 per kilowatt-hour. And these are people in villages. What this means is that we need to do the right thing, as the grid still remains the cheapest means of electricity that can help our industries to work. Therefore, we need to make the grid work. And the only way to make it work is that first of all, Nigerians must pay for the cost of electricity. Secondly, the industry should be governed by contract and everybody that is supposed to do the right thing must do it. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  