Ada Wodu, Calabar Electricity consumers in Cross River State have urged Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company to improve its services before increasing its tariffs. They made their views known at the public forum organised for customers of PHEDC in Calabar. The Executive Secretary of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Cross River State branch, Mr Offiong Archibong, who spoke during the interactive session, said electricity was a major enabler of the nation’s economy but regretted that there was inadequate power supply for industries to thrive. He said, “MAN members are not satisfied with the PHEDC services. Most times when issues arise and the complaints get to the PHEDC, they fail to address such issues. The PHEDC must do the needful and improve their services if they must get us to pay the increase in tariff.” Also, a representative of Cross River State chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress, in his contribution, opposed electricity tariff increase at this time. The congress said, “It is difficult to get an improved economy without a stable power supply. Where is the accountability of the PHEDC if they keep on collecting money for services they don’t render? “We strongly demand that the PHEDC jettison the idea of tariff increment as it is unacceptable and will cause untold hardship on citizens.” A consumer, Myra Bassey, said she was dissatisfied with the plan to increase electricity tariff and that the decision would encourage people to steal power the more and engage in illegal bypassing which would in turn cause more problems to the power firm. The Project Management Officer, representing Chief Executive Officer of PHEDC, Mr Ernest Edgar, who spoke before the interactive session, highlighted some threats the PHEDC faced. These include frequent assault on staff, lack of access to finance for operations and capital investment, vandalism and theft, tampering/damage of electric metering devices, meter by-passing and customers’ unwillingness to pay bills. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    