Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives is working on a bill to commercialise national emblems and symbols, among others, to generate revenue for the Federal Government. Such items to be regulated and sold by a proposed agency include the national flag and the coat of arm. This is being proposed in a bill sponsored by Mr Babajimi Benson, titled, ‘The National Icons, Symbols, Legacy Agency bill,’ which is awaiting second reading. When established, NISLA would now be responsible for administration of provisions of the Flags and Coat of Arms Act 1960, and the Counterfeit Currency Offence (Special Provisions) Act 1984. Benson, in the explanatory note, said, “This bill seeks to establish the National Icons, Symbols Legacy Agency as a revenue generating agency of the Federal Government of Nigeria for the purpose of production, sales and distribution of uniform products such as the Nigerian national flag, the coat of arms and printing of copies of the national anthem in the Nigerian languages and for preservation of all national icons and symbols as a legacy for future generations and for related purposes.” Three months after the enactment of the bill, any person found printing or making any Nigerian national symbol for both personal and commercial purposes would, upon conviction, pay a fine of N200,000 to NISLA. Any person found selling unauthorised Nigerian national flag would also, upon conviction, pay a fine of N50,000 to the agency. When established, NISLA and the Nigerian Immigration Service will conduct examinations for foreigners entering Nigeria to determine how much they know about the country. NISLA will also partner the Federal Ministry of Education to educate young Nigerians on national symbols, emblems and anthem. The bill listed functions of the proposed agency as including to, “Undertake identification of all the national symbols and icons of Nigeria and publish a list of such national symbols and icons within three months after the enactment of this bill. “Ensure the preservation of all national symbols and icons in both digital and manual formats. Be solely responsible for the uniform printing and sale of all national symbols and icons. Account for all amounts so collected for the sale of all national symbols and icons in a manner to be prescribed by the President. “In conjunction with the Nigerian Immigration Service, conduct oral and written examinations to evaluate and ascertain that applicants for citizenship have basic knowledge of national symbols and national anthem. “In conjunction with the Ministry of Education, conduct oral and written examinations in schools to inculcate and ensure that students have knowledge of national symbols and anthem. “Institute measures designed to promote national unity in Nigerians for this purpose and shall liaise with academic, professional and media houses in Nigeria; and do such other things as are in the opinion of the board necessary to ensure the efficient performance of the object of the agency under this bill.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 