Tony Okafor, Awka The Anambra Police Command on Thursday warned complainants in the state to reduce their frequency to police stations in the state. This it said was in compliance with the social distancing order globally in force on account of the coronavirus pandemic. The command said the order was also in line with the directives of the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu towards containing the spread of COVID-19. A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Haruna Mohammed, said the enforcement had commenced. Mohammed said, “Members of the public are advised against visits to police stations and other security formations, except when the visit is absolutely necessary on security grounds.” He gave out some designated telephone lines through which the public could reach the police in the state in case of any emergency. He also urged the people to use the telephone lines to report observed breaches of the restriction order or other security threats. The statement read in part, “All public gatherings are hereby suspended till further notice;  night clubs and bars, traditional marriages,  community festivals, masquerades festivals, funeral/burial ceremonies, baby christening, title ceremonies and any meeting of more than 30 persons have been suspended forthwith. “All academic and non-academic institutions, vocational centres, nursery/primary/secondary/tertiary schools either public, private or mission-owned must vacate immediately and no academic or extra-curricular activities are allowed. “Schools and other facilities that fail to shut down voluntarily will be forced to comply accordingly. Henceforth, number of passengers to be conveyed in commercial vehicles has been limited to the following: keke, two passengers; shuttle bus, four passengers; and minibus, six passengers. “The public is to note that the police and all security services in the state are geared to enforce these restrictions to the letter in observance of overriding public health interest. “All are, therefore, enjoined to postpone their social events, commitments and all gatherings of any kind that may attract more than 30 persons.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   