Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Domestic airlines have offered to help the Federal Government with essential flight services to cushion the effects of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. Most of the airlines commenced the suspension of flight operations on Friday to help reduce the spread of the virus. Dana Air said as part of support for the Federal Government’s efforts towards curbing the spread of Covid-19, it would be offering its resources, aircraft and crew to assist the nation. The airline, in a letter to the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, expressed its readiness to contribute in the movement of machines, equipment and relief materials to different states and locations where they would be needed within the country. According to the letter signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the airline, Jacky Hathiramani, Dana Air will make available resources, aircraft in its fleet and crew for the national, adding that the airline’s crew will be more than ready and proud to carry out the assignment upon request. Hathiramani said, ‘’This is a global issue and this is the time for us all to play our part by supporting the government’s efforts in stemming the further spread of this pandemic in our dear nation. “I am not too comfortable with the rising number of cases in Nigeria, and this is why we took the huge decision to suspend our flight operations for 14 days in the interest of our staff, our very esteemed customers and the nation at large. The support we are offering as an airline will only be an addition to the efforts of the government in fighting the pandemic.” Aero Contractors also offered its aircraft, both fixed wing and helicopters to the Federal Government for airlift of relief materials, medical equipment and personnel in the fight against the virus. The Chief Executive Officer of Aero Contractor, Capt. Ado Sanusi, said the aircraft would be at the disposal of the Presidential Task Force for the Control of Coronavirus in Nigeria, headed by the Secretary to the Federal Government of Nigeria, Boss Mustapha. He said, “We at Aero Contractors have decided to offer our fleet to the Federal Government, all the aircraft in the fixed wing and rotary, to deploy at its disposal in the fight against COVID-19. This is what we have decided to do to support government. “I am impressed by what the task force is doing so far and I believe that our little contributions will help them. They can use the aircraft to airlift relief materials, medical equipment and personnel. “I use this opportunity to implore Nigerians to follow the instructions by the federal, state governments and the task force so that we will protect ourselves from this pandemic.” Air Peace and Arik Air had also stated that they would be available to support government’s emergency, humanitarian and charter flight requests during the period of suspension of air transport operations. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   