Enyioha Opara, Minna The whereabouts of five abducted school girls, a teacher and a security guard at Tulare Academy School Maruba, in the Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State, remains unknown six days after their abduction. However, the police in the state said a manhunt had been launched for the bandits. It was gathered that the kidnappers numbering about 36 came into the school premises on motorcycles on Sunday evening and started shooting sporadically creating panic. Afterwards, they abducted the five schoolgirls, their teacher and the security man. The bandits were said to have taken advantage of the remote location of the private boarding primary school and its lack of perimeter fence to carry out the operation. The school has now been deserted. The Niger State Commissioner of Police, Adamu Usman, who led heads of other security agencies to the school, said a special technical squad and anti-kidnapping squad had been deployed to comb the area and rescue the victims unhurt. He explained that the visit of the security chiefs to the scene was to enable them to deploy additional security measures to the school and the community to forestall a recurrence. Usman said, “No amount of pressure and intimidation will deter the command from discharging its constitutional mandate of safeguarding lives and property of people.” He appealed to communities in the state to always report any person or group with questionable activities to the nearest security agency for prompt response. Last Sunday, the Pastor of Kauna Baptist Church, Danazunmi, near Grigori in the Rafi local government area of the state, Reverend Genesis Zaka, and three female church members were kidnapped by bandits. The names of the kidnapped female church members were given as Tabitha Luka, Liatu Nuhu and Rahila Luka. The pastor and the female church members were said to have been abducted by the bandits during the morning Sunday service. An eyewitness who narrated how the incident occurred told Saturday PUNCH that during the service the bandits came in large number riding on motorcycles and surrounded the church resulting in a stampede with many of the worshipers running to safety. It was in the confusion that the pastor and the three female church members were kidnapped and taken to an unknown destination. The source said that on Monday the bandits contacted the church secretary asking for N30m ransom before their victims would be released. The church was said to have pleaded that they could only raise N40, 000 which the bandits reportedly rejected but promised to get back to the church. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 