Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr.(CFA) The world more than even before is very hungry for digital and technical talents. Ever since the imminent transition, into the digital age, all across the globe, business leaders, in almost, all industries, have been facing the problem of recruiting, the best digital talents, to enable their organisations set the motion, for the future of work. The workspace of the future will be largely influenced by technologies, such as quantum computing, big data, robotics, virtual reality, machine learning, blockchain and artificial intelligence. These modern trends are shaping the future of the business ecosystem. Attracting the best and the right talents, to compete, successfully, in this present digital age, organisations must be ready, to explore beyond the approach, of sourcing, traditionally. Trying to fine-tune old recruiting methods, would not guarantee you, the results you want, in this new digital age, but rather, the dynamics, of the talent marketplace, requires, finding and sourcing for them, through partnership, sharing and creating a community. This approach is, best described, as an “open-source talent” and it has, for long, changed the dynamics, of getting the best results, for talent hunt, in a competitive market. In a 2018 report, from Open Source Jobs, based on ‘The Linux Foundation and Dice’, hiring open source talent, increased from 76 per cent, in 2017. These days, small companies, trying to get into a similar talent pool, as the big tech companies have a wide recruiting challenge to surmount. More difficult, if your start-up is, not dynamic and still holds on, to traditional approaches. Traditional organisations are seeking ways to sort out and attract young and dynamic digital talents and simultaneously, compete with reputable tech giants and innovative disruptors. Beyond the advent of the digital age that, warranted the necessity, of strong competition, in the talent market, organisations need the services, of people that, understand the dynamics of, effectively, working, with a business model that is, customer-centered and integrates operations. These companies, need talents, to help drive changes, as well as, those that, can support in partnership. The scarcity of such tech talents is, compounded, by the changes, in the demographics, in terms of the demands, coming from employees. It is quite different, from what it was, generations back. Over the years, certain values appeared to have changed. This new generation of young tech talents is moved by getting to achieve their aspirations and recognition. They want more flexibility and adaptable career path, preferring to be in control of their own professional life. In view of this, a lot more pragmatic approach should be employed in the processes of recruiting to easily appeal to a multiplex and manifold tech talent ecosystem. As it stands, however, each tech company has the exclusive ownership of the top tech talents and this describes a situation where the victory for one company spells a loss for the other. This is no doubt, the case, for many jobs out there, however, in a market where, top skills, especially, in tech, are a major requirement, then companies have to get smart and seek effective ways, to scout out the best talents available. In the future of work, pipelines will be established by organisations that, are ready to embrace, open-source talent, to engender partnership, sharing and creating a community. With this approach, this talent strategy ensures that the creation of a more successful and high-quality tech talent channel, through partnership, among tech talent recruiters. The tech talent base, can be expanded and also, shared, across the organization, as the aim here is, to boost the effectiveness, of the future of work, by creating communities, for young tech talents, to learn, exchange top-notch ideas and develop essential skills. In all of these, expectations of organisations, to succeed, will be quite low, in the open-source talent approach. This could be the result, once, the organisation’s work environment, appears not to be attractive, to the tech talent they require. Attracting the right tech talent, to secure the future of work is, a function of going by these four key factors: Leveraging personality and knowledge Every interaction you make, gradually, turns to an important source of data. Trying to understand the needs of your employees, especially, the tech talented ones and what drives their inherent behaviour, will assist companies in creating better propositions that help for bigger purposes. Understanding their personalities is highly essential for getting them attracted. Authenticity Beyond offering a reasonable competitive compensation for your potential tech talents, you will need to create talent value propositions that, has the capacity, to offer a unique state of work purpose as well as an atmosphere of well-being. In contrast to what traditional companies tend to offer their employees, organisations seeking young and dynamic tech talents need to have their vision operating structure and business model strategy to be aligned. Aligning the talent’s value proposition with that of the workforce Why not rethink the basics of HR, ranging from the yearly salary review to the performance cycle. It is necessary because the process was designed long ago and its structure might not work well with tech talents today. The process, however, is still the basis of how talents are managed in the workforce. Very successful business owners would challenge the general norms and practice that has defined people’s management over time. Workflow experience You need to create an environment that, encourages your employees, to have a life and work balance. Young tech talents want, rather, seamless work and life experience. The way organisations crowdsource ideas when creating models for customer experience ought to be similar to what they should be willing to offer their employees. This tends to create an atmosphere of engagement for your potential tech talents, thus shaping a better workplace. In today’s digital world, innovative organisations, are creating new forms of tech talent acquisition that, show the digital skills and dynamics they require. This may appear a long way coming, but no doubt, it is a good step, in the right direction. In the future workforce, tech talents will take over the space and it is just a matter of time that organisations will set up the right models, to acquire them. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 