Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The number of visas on arrival issued at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos in the last one month has dropped drastically due to the global outbreak of coronavirus, which has reduced foreign trips. Our correspondent gathered that the total number of visas on arrival issued in February was 265, down from the 440 issued in January. The drop shows a difference of 175 or 39.8 per cent in just one month. A source at the Nigeria Immigration Service who spoke on condition of anonymity said the drop showed the effect of COVID-19 on business visits to the country. The source explained that there had been a great reduction in the issuance of visas on arrival by the NIS at the MMIA, Lagos. The Federal Government recently introduced a new visa policy, which allows travellers to visit Nigeria without a visa and only commence the process of obtaining the visa upon arrival in the country. The new policy, according to the Federal Government, seeks to attract foreign investors as well as boost trade and tourism in the country. It is available to citizens of all countries except nationals of the Economic Community of West African States who do not require any visa to visit Nigeria, or other countries, which have entered into visa abolition agreements with Nigeria. The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, said that the new policy had broadened the scope of visa issuance in Nigeria from the hitherto six categories to 79. The minister said the visa on arrival could only be obtained at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja; Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos; Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano; and Port Harcourt International Airport. According to Aregbesola, visa on arrival will also be available at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu when it reopens. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   