Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Eight suspects have been arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command over the killing of a police inspector at Imasai in the Yewa North Local Government Area of the state. There was a violent clash on Sunday in the border town between officials of the Nigeria Customs Service and residents of the community, which resulted in the death of the inspector. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident on Sunday, said eight persons had been apprehended in connection with the murder of the police officer. The PPRO said the slain inspector was a member of the National Border Team, which was on a routine anti-smuggling operation in the area. Oyeyemi stated, “The suspects killed one policeman, who was attached to the National Border Team. They seized his gun, hit him with a car and then shot him dead. “Some suspects have been arrested in connection with the crime and the inspector’s rifle has been recovered. “Presently, the case is being handled by the homicide section of the command. “We have arrested eight suspects and they have been transferred to the homicide section of the state police command, Eleweran, Abeokuta.” It was gathered that many residents of the community had fled their homes and were hiding in the bush. Some were reported to have locked themselves up in their houses to avoid arrest and reprisal by security agents following the killing of the inspector. But, the PPRO said normalcy had been restored in the community. He stated, “We are still looking for members of that syndicate and we are not going to rest on our laurels until the last person, who participated in that nefarious activity, is apprehended. “Those who did it have invited trouble and they will see the trouble. It is barbaric to launch an attack on law enforcement agents, who are doing their normal duty. “We will do everything humanly possible to get them punished. They are criminals.” Meanwhile, Governor Dapo Abiodun, has called for restraint in the use of firearms by law enforcement agents in the state. The governor said in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, on Sunday that he had intervened in the unrest in Imasayi. The statement added that Abiodun had been in contact with the relevant authorities, including the Nigerian Army and the Nigeria Customs Service. [READ ALSO] Ifeanyi Ubah: Police charge lawyer with forgery He added that talks were ongoing to apprehend the suspects, who killed the inspector in the melee and took away his rifle. The statement added, “A manhunt has therefore been launched for the suspects, who also made away with the slain officer’s weapon. “Already, the manhunt as of this morning (Sunday) had yielded result with the retrieval of the said stolen rifle, but the search to discover and arrest the culprits continues under the strict directive of the governor. “Fortunately, the suspects already arrested in connection with this criminal act are giving useful information that will lead to the arrest of the main suspect. “Governor Abiodun pleaded with the officers to be humane in the discharge of their duties.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 