Nike Popoola The National Insurance Commission has inaugurated the members of the Insurance Industry Financial Reporting Working Group, an advisory and consultative team for the purpose of seamless adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard 17 in Nigeria. During the inauguration ceremony in Lagos on Monday, the acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, said in May 2017, the International Accounting Standard Board issued the International Financial Reporting Standard 17 Insurance Contract, which would replace the present IFRS 4 on accounting for insurance contracts by January 1, 2022. He said, “Thus, beginning from January 1, 2022, all insurance and reinsurance contracts must be reported in accordance with IFRS 17. The IFRS 17 insurance contracts establish the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of Insurance contracts within the scope of the Standard. “The objective of IFRS 17 is to ensure that an entity provides relevant information that faithfully represents those contracts. This information gives a basis for users of financial statements to assess the effect that insurance contracts have on the entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows.” The working group consisted of members with relevant expertise and experience of insurance business, its accounting as well as financial instruments, which was a mix of key stakeholders from different backgrounds, he said. Thomas said, “The role of the IIFRWG is to support the commission in providing technical advice on the adoption of IFRS 17 Insurance Contract and IFRS Interpretations on insurance specific matters and their application within Nigeria. “The working group will also provide specialised knowledge to enhance an understanding of insurance specific issues and technical assessment of proposals by advising and supporting the commission/ industry in some following areas.” Thomas said the working group’s output would always take the form of recommendation to the commission and to support the commission’s role to the industry and all those involved in the insurance financial reporting value chain. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   