Tukur Muntari, Kano A  faction of the Kano State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has rejected the results of the party’s ward congresses held across the state. The Chairman, Forum of Local Government Party Chairmen of the PDP, Alhaji Muhammina Bako Lamido, rejected the results at a press conference, in Kano, on Tuesday. He said the results announced by the Governor of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Fintiri, who was the chairman of the congress committee, were guided by loyalists of former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso to the exclusion of other stakeholders. Lamido alleged that “on arrival, the Congress committee contacted only the Kwankwasiyya group neglecting the mainstream PDP. “With this group, the congress committee agreed on the modalities for the congress, and of which the other group was not aware at all.” He further said, “It was after accepting the list of the candidates as presented by the Kwankwasiyya group that the chairman who is a serving state governor under the platform of the PDP invited the head of the other group he neglected. “All the aspirants for the congresses in wards totalling 9,680, who purchased nomination forms and belonged to the other group were not even considered, let alone listen to them. On the basis of the above, we hereby reject the results as announced.” Lamido insisted that the congresses were not conducted in line with the provisions of the party’s constitution, adding, “We are calling on the national headquarters (of the party) for fresh congresses.” He explained that it was public knowledge that the PDP in Kano had been in crisis since the return of former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso. The chairman noted that it was unfortunate that the national headquarters of the party had chosen to side with the former governor against the majority of party members who had remained loyal even when Kwankwaso and his group left before staging a comeback. Although none of Kwankwaso’s loyalists agreed to speak officially on the issue, a source who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “If the people speaking are truly members of this party, they know the procedure for lodging complaints. “Nobody that is anybody in Kano PDP can ignore the contributions of Kwankwaso to this party in Kano in particular and Nigeria in general.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  