Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin Kwara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress on Monday warned the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Yekini Nabena, against taking over the position of the National Publicity Secretary of the party presently occupied by Mallam Lanre Isa-Onilu. The APC said Nabena who hails from the South had no business seeking to occupy a none vacant position zoned to the North-Central. Nabena had in a statement on Sunday, announced himself as acting National Publicity Secretary in place of Isa-Onilu who he claimed was restrained from functioning as publicity secretary citing the pronouncement of a Sokoto High Court. In a statement signed by the Kwara State APC chairman, Bashir Bolarinwa, the party, “We received with shock and dismay a statement credited to the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Mr Yekini Nabena, stating his intention to ‘take over’ the office of the Party’s National Publicity Secretary currently and legitimately occupied by Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu following an interpretation of a purported court order. “For a position that has been zoned to the North Central zone and micro-zoned to Kwara State, we of the Kwara State APC solidly and unanimously stand in defence of our rightful position of the APC National Publicity Secretary and candidate, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu. The party said Onilu’s appointment was legally done and concluded by the North Central zone in July 2019, stressing that the court order Nabena was parading had elapsed and was of no consequence. It added, “The purported Sokoto court order Nabena seeks to profit from restrains the party from appointing or electing Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu for the position of the APC National Publicity Secretary. “In any case, the procured Sokoto court order has elapsed and no longer in effect.” Bolarinwa advised Nabena to avail himself of the legal requirements for APC National Offices. He also called on the National Working Committee of the party to “do the needful” and allow Lanre remain in office. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 