Matthew Ochei, Asaba The Delta State Police Command has arrested the Chairman of the Nsukwa Community Vigilante Group, Chief Felix Bolu, and four others for the brutality of one Mr Nkemdili Asalimnwa. Bolu, a retired Superintendent of Police, and members of the vigilante group were arrested in connection with the alleged attempted murder of Asalimnwa. Southern City News learnt on Monday that a police special crack team stormed the agrarian community and arrested the suspects in their homes, a development that threw the entire community into commotion. Community sources told our correspondent that an unlicensed pump action gun and eight live cartridges were recovered from Bolu, who was put in handcuffs by the police team. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, alleged that the recovered gun was one of the many in Bolu’s possession. Narrating his ordeal to our correspondent, Asalimnwa said he had a close shave with death as a result of the beating he was subjected to by Bolu and his men, who also made away with his personal belongings. Asalimnwa stated, “A community known for peace and harmony has now become violent due to a rampaging vigilante group that has become the proverbial lord of the manor. “The Nsukwa community now lives in fear and intimidation by gun-wielding men; there are killings after killings in the community as well as land-grabbing. I was beaten and only God returned me from the world beyond. “How can we be living in fear of violence in our once peaceful community? I am praying that the police and the law enforcement institutions help us rid the community of this nightmare.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, who confirmed the incident on Tuesday, said that Bolu was only brought for questioning. “It is a land matter; so, our men only invited him for questioning. He is a retired policeman,” she said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 