Adelani Adepegba, Abuja A suspected gunrunner, John Ajav, has stated that he was manufacturing firearms with his deceased father, adding that the firearms were sold to Cameroonians. Ajav explained that his father had a licence to produce weapons, adding that he had been fabricating guns since 2018. He disclosed that he had so far sold eight guns to his Cameroonian customers. The 35-year-old was nabbed by men of the Federal Capital Territory Police Command in Kwande, Benue State, following the arrest of one Michael Obi, who was caught with a gun. Obi was on his way to deliver the firearm to a customer in Sabon Lugbe, Abuja, when policemen discovered the gun. The suspect, thereafter, led detectives to Ajav in Benue State. The police said Ajav took detectives to his farm, where his workshop was located, adding that three locally-made pistols, three pieces of live ammunition, two uncompleted pistols, four magazines, two drilling machines, carbide, 12 metal files, one hammer, screwdrivers and saw were recovered. But speaking to Northern City News in Abuja on Thursday, Ajav stated that he had no idea that it was illegal to fabricate firearms, adding that he sold the weapons only to Cameroonians. He stated, “I was doing this (fabricating firearms) with my father, but I started on my own in 2018. My customers come from Cameroon; I didn’t know that the guns could get into wrong hands. “My father had a licence to manufacture Dane guns, so I didn’t know that I was doing anything illegal. So far, I have manufactured eight guns.” Obi, who was dealing in clothes, explained that he got involved in gunrunning for financial reasons. “I was involved in the clothing business, but after some time, the business collapsed because there was no money to continue with it. That is why I got involved in selling guns,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 