Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Stallion Motors, an auto assembler and franchisee of nine global brands including Hyundai, has announced plans to introduce electric sport utility vehicle into Nigeria’s automobile market before the end of this year. The company’s Vice Chairman, Mr Haresh Vaswani, stated that Stallion planned to officially introduce to Nigeria’s market, Hyundai Kona, an electric car, which he noted had been adjudged by European motoring journalists as world’s number one. Vaswani said well-meaning and concerned people globally were urgently making moves to save the planet by using electric cars. He said, “After operating successfully in Nigeria for over five decades, the least our company could give back to the country and, by extension, the world is to be a leading pilot in steering the nation to the direction of clean energy use and reduction of emission. “Not being dissuaded by the nation’s infrastructural challenges, one of our plans for this year is to introduce into the country electric vehicle and, in no distant future, embark on attitude-change campaign for a clean environment in conjugation with Hyundai.” Describing the Kona as versatile and powerful, he said it would be the first all-electric SUV in Nigeria. He added that its power-packed performance would provide a thrilling driving experience with high acceleration over long distances. According to Vaswani, the driving range for Kona is 482 kilometres with an acceleration of 0 to 100km in 9.7 seconds. He said, “The ease of charging is unmatched; one can even plug it in at home or at work and charge it for 9.35 hours for a full battery capacity. Hyundai Kona comes with five years of battery warranty and five years of vehicle warranty. “Kona will change the way people think about going electric. It will make history as the first EV in Nigeria with local manufacturing.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  