Which sport will you rate as the best? For me, Football is the best sport in the world. It is just amazing to behold and witness. Why did you rate football as the best sport? Football is the best because nothing rivals it in Entertainment, the thrills, the unity it brings. I still remember the
goose bumps on my body severally, the joy of victory, the way people celebrate. I think it has become a way of life. Did you play football as a kid? Yes I did. I nurtured the dream of becoming a footballer but along the line, life happened and the dream died but I still wish I took it up as a career though. Any form of civil disobedience as a child so that you can join your friends to play football? Of course, Yes. It happened many times and the funny thing is that most times I came home with either a broken toe, twisted ankle or a dislocated shoulder which I felt was a divine punishment for disobeying my parents. You know we all went through that stage. I doubt if you don’t find people with similar experiences. It is a common thing, part of growing up. Which position did you play? I played in all defence positions except the left full back position but my preferred position was central defensive because it enables me to properly read the game. Who is your favourite sportsperson? The greatest of all time in my opinion is “Cristiano Ronaldo”. Which football club do you support? I support Manchester United, the biggest football club in England. We are EPL kings, we own the record 20-epl titles so, is not easy. But, it seems the Devils have lost their mojo. What is your take? We are going through a phase. All big sides will definitely experience it, just look at Milan, look at Inter, they’re now on a resurgence so, it is normal. Juventus were once down before they came back, so, we’ll definitely turn the page. Do you watch Nigeria league? Not recently anymore, I used to watch it some years ago. I watched Sharks of Port Harcourt, Rangers Football Club, NPA Football Club of Warri, Enyimba doing us proud on the continental front but of late, I cannot really remember seeing a game but I follow it on the news though, to see how we are doing on the continent. Which Nigerian club do you support? It used to be Enyimba but I don’t really follow them anymore. Can you give a reason for that? Well, I guess I just lost steam you know. The league has somewhat lost its charm. I have not followed it for a while but, Enyimba still remains my darling team. What they have achieved on the continent is impressive. Which is your greatest sporting moment? I have quite a few but my very best was when David Beckham scored a last minute equalising free kick against Greece in the world cup qualifier in 2001 that made England qualify for the world cup. I knew he was going to score that goal and he did. I can never forget that. If there is truly reincarnation, would you love to be a footballer? Of course, yes but right now I am a comedian, let me create all the laughter first so that if I become a footballer in the next world, I wouldn’t have to wish to be a comedian. Let me deal with the present now, reincarnation is futuristic. I am a comedian, I make people laugh, and I enjoy it. But, like you said if I can come back in the next world then, I will opt for sport. Asides football, which other sports do you follow? I follow tennis like a religion. I am a huge fan of Roger Federer and hoping he wins another grand slam this year. Federer is vintage that is the best way to describe him. You see him on court, the grace, his movement you are left to just admire him. He remains one of the greatest if not the greatest the tennis world have ever produced. I am a huge fan of the Swiss star. Would you encourage your children to play football? I will encourage them to play football for fun growing up and if they want to pursue it to the very end; I would give them my complete support. Sport is now a lucrative venture, it is quite tempting. I want them to be happy, if they’re passionate about it, I will definitely support them. It doesn’t have to be football. It could be basketball, athletics and others. As long as she or he is happy and talented then, I’ll offer my support. Premier League or La Liga, which is better? For me, no league is better than the premier League. A lot of people might argue that no one from the EPL has won the Ballon d’or since 2008 but beyond that the Premier League is the league that gives you the most form of unpredictability and complete entertainment. Shocking results are a constant thing in the league. Which athletes would you love to meet? I have a very long list but top of my list in this order are Cristiano Ronaldo, Roger Federer, Serena Williams and Jose Mourinho. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  