Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Imo State Government and the Nigerian Conservation Foundation are working together to preserve wildlife in the state. As part of the collaboration, the officials of the state government, the NCF, the Federal Ministry of Environment and National Association of Zoo and Wildlife Parks recently commemorated the World Wildlife Day with the theme ‘Sustaining all life on earth’ in Owerri. According to a statement by the NCF, the activities of the day commenced with a rally from Imo International Conference Centre to Ahiajoku Convention Centre where a reception was held. A rally, led by government officials and members of NAZAP had about 15 secondary schools, the NCF added. The acting Permanent Secretary, Mrs Sabina Onwuchi, said wildlife comprised animals, birds and insects in their natural habitat, adding that they were nature’s gifts to mankind. The Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma, who was the special guest of honour, said the occasion presented a challenge for a sober soul search on how people had related with, preserved or destroyed nature. “Habitat degradation manifests in many forms. Among them are relentless mining, both lawful and unlawful, uncontrolled logging, development of industrial plantations, highway and urban development, unbridled fuel wood exploitation and a host of other human activities,” he said. He said he would upgrade the Imo State Zoological Garden and Wildlife Park to an international standard for ecotourism and research. The Director-General of the NCF, Dr Muhtari Aminu-Kano, who was represented by the Coordinator, Species Recovery and Conservation Programme, Mr Stephen Aina, said the quality of human life on earth could be measured by environmental indices. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  