These are certainly not the best of times for the ruling All Progressives Congress and its troubled National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The travails of the former governor of Edo State didn’t just begin. His handling of the party’s primaries, which led to the emergence of governorship and National Assembly candidates for the 2019 general elections, won him several powerful enemies. The decision to let some states choose their mode of primaries, while at the same time allegedly foisting a mode of primaries on others, did not go down well with many. While these and other issues lingered, forces seeking to be better positioned for the political battle of 2023 set in motion strategies to control the party structure at all levels. His relationship with fellow members of the party’s National Working Committee, especially those from the North, took a turn for the worse as he consolidated power on assumption of office. While doing that, his enemies were also not sleeping. Just as the followers of the former labour leader were meeting, his traducers were equally planning.  Since the ruling party is made up of people of different political beliefs, the infighting within its leadership escalated. This made some of its members to go to court. Their prayers were answered with an interlocutory injunction issued by a Federal Capital Territory High Court, presided over by Justice Danlami Senchi, against Oshiomhole. The court had on Wednesday, March 4, issued an order barring Oshiomhole from acting as the National Chairman of the APC. Hours after the court order became public, Oshiomhole’s loyalists went on the offensive. Apart from approaching the court for a stay of execution, the tormented national chairman caused a statement to be issued to announce the appointment of Abiola Ajimobi, as the party’s Deputy National Chairman (South). The statement, which was signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Isa-Onilu, said, among other things, “The party’s NWC has approved other new national officers, namely, Waziri Bulama – Ag. National Secretary, and Mr Paul Chukwuma – National Auditor.” Curiously, the statement announced that the decision was reached on January 14, 2020, during the meeting of the NWC at the party’s National Secretariat. The statement was curiously silent on why the party waited till March 4 before making the decision allegedly taken at the January 14 meeting, public. The APC National Vice Chairman (North-East), Salihu Mustapha, described the March 4 announcement as “laughable and pathetic.” He pointed out flaws in the decision taken by pro-Oshiomhole members of the NWC to announce a decision “purportedly” taken at a meeting on January 14, more than a month after, and at a time the chairman had been suspended from office via a court order. Mustapha, who has been in a running battle with Oshiomhole over the vacant position of the party’s National Secretary, while reacting to the development, said, “What amuses me the most — and it is very pathetic and disturbing because we saw an announcement that purported that we approved nominations of three officers on January 14. “One of these officers, which is the deputy chairman (South) — even the nomination from his state came to the national vice chairman on February 28, almost 40 days after the date of the purported meeting. The meeting we had on January 14 ended abruptly and it was only the vacant position of secretary that was discussed. “I came out of the meeting and I told you guys (reporters) that the meeting was stopped because they were trying to carry out illegality on only the National Secretary. The matter of the other people was referred to the zone; nobody discussed it.” Following the court order that suspended Oshiomhole, policemen were deployed to the national secretariat of the party to maintain the peace as tension among contending parties heightened. While party members, lawyers and other interested Nigerians were still processing this development, another court, this time, a Federal High Court in Kano, presided over by Justice Lewis Allagoa, on Thursday, March 5, issued another order setting aside the interlocutory injunction earlier issued by the FCT High Court. Oshiomhole’s supporters, some of whom include the National Vice Chairman (South-South), Hilliard Eta, said the decision of the court in Kano had rendered the injunction suspending Oshiomhole useless. Eta also alleged that the Court of Appeal had ruled on the stay of execution prayers by Oshiomhole. However, our correspondent found out that the claim was not true. He said, “Haven’t they heard the Appeal Court ruling this evening? The appeal court has granted the stay of execution. You need to read the two orders. “The one that is fundamental is that the court has set aside the purported suspension of the national chairman by his ward. Remember that the injunction by the Abuja court was predicated on that suspension. So, they cannot be an order in futility because what the order was standing on has been removed.” As the controversies over the rulings of the two courts with same powers rage on, the Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Salihu Lukeman, expressed the view that, depending on one’s disposition, the question of “jurisdiction, coordinate or otherwise may be the focus of analysis.” According to him, once that becomes the focus, even lawyers may have to run back to the courts to seek determination of the matter. Lukeman said, “Under the circumstances, every position canvassed may just be wishful thinking. This is one reason why, when it comes to matters of the law and its interpretation, no matter our levels of education, in the end, we are all laymen.” The PGF DG, who has also been a vocal critic of Oshiomhole’s style of leadership, expressed his opinion on the bigger picture, which borders on the party’s survival. He said, “The most important political question however has to do with implications of the unfolding events to our party, the APC, and our leaders, especially regarding the status of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. With all that is going on, is he still the national chairman? “If he is, will he be able to respond to all these challenges in a way that restores his legitimacy to continue to preside over the affairs of the party? How will all these affect the electoral fortunes of the party, especially given the question of his membership credential of the party? “On the other hand, if it turns out that he is no longer the national chairman, who succeeds him and how can we ensure that such a transition comes with increased electoral advantages for our party? What could be the determining requirement for that to be guaranteed?” Lukeman’s views were similar to those expressed by the party’s National Vice Chairman (North-West), Inuwa Abdulkadir, who told our correspondent, “What is at stake goes beyond the person of Oshiomhole. The truth is that, before Oshiomhole, we had the APC and we are fighting to ensure that, after he leaves, there will still be the APC for generations to come. I have nothing personal against him.” An Abuja-based public affairs commentator, Mr Emmanuel Idoko, is of the view that the battle to oust Oshiomhole is just one phase of the struggle for the soul of the party ahead of 2023. He said, “To the ordinary man on the street, they are just trying to remove Oshiomhole from office, but to a more critical mind, the question is why? It is also instructive to note that the national chairman had to go all the way to Kano to file a process to get a reversal of the suspension order. That should tell you something. “There are governors within the APC whose tenures are expiring by 2023. They have other ambitions. The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, and his colleague in Ondo, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, want second-term tickets. Other interests at the centre are working to upstage those they feel will constitute a challenge for their 2023 ambitions. So, the battle to control the party structure will naturally be intense from this point onwards.” Oshiomhole alluded to this when he visited the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the State House in Abuja on Thursday. ‘‘Those fighting me just feel that if they cannot give me orders, then, they must do everything to embarrass my person…They are the ones who will plot how do we get rid of him because they want to be president in 2023 even when their hold on their state at the moment is doubtful,’’ he told State House correspondent. Another commentator, Mr. Maxwell Idoko, said, “More and more politicians have realised that the judiciary is becoming a big factor in determining a lot of things in the polity and, like everything else, they will continue to try to get the system on their side. Nigerians should be prepared for court judgments that defy logic.” He maintained that the APC national chairman should also accept blame for the state of affairs within the party. Idoko said, “Oshiomhole cannot absolve himself of the situation he has found himself. Wise generals pick the battles they fight per time. Oshiomhole is fighting so many battles at the same time. In his case, he is fighting his political godson, the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki; he is at loggerheads with some of the party’s influential governors over mode of primaries; and at the same time, he is fighting ministers. “And what most people appear to ignore is the fact that he has literarily ostracised the northern block of the APC NWC. He is fighting the Deputy National Chairman (North), the National Vice Chairmen (North-West), the one from the North-East, and so many others. This is a national party and it must be national in its outlook.” The battle for the soul of the ruling party is expected to be fiercer in the days ahead, just as Oshiomhole will also do everything possible to remain in office. Whichever way the pendulum swings, the APC is unlikely to remain the same after this battle. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    