Nike Popoola NECA’s Network of Entrepreneurial Women, a platform established to promote and nurture entrepreneurship among women in partnership with the Alive & Thrive Initiative and other stakeholders has urged firms to give priority to gender equality. They spoke during a rally and plenary session to commemorate this year’s International Women’s Day with the theme, ‘Generation equality, each for equal’, in Lagos. Speaking at the event, President, NECA Network of Entrepreneurial Women, Modupe Oyekunle, stated that the occasion offered an opportunity to draw attention to the challenges of maternal protection at the workplace and improve enabling environment for nursing mothers. She lamented the challenges the organisation with Alive & Thrive had faced in persuading corporate groups to put in place facilities such as lactation rooms in their workplace to enable nursing mothers to exclusively breastfeed for six months. She noted that this gesture would increase productivity and give them peace of mind. “The problem of gender inequality is no longer a women’s issue, but a business one and every one of us has a role to play in achieving a gender balanced Nigeria that does become an enabled society and economic giant,” she said. Keynote speaker and Group Chief Executive Officer, Mandilas, Ms Ola Debayo-Doherty, stated that an average woman was naturally gifted in multitasking, organising themselves, their deliverables at work and at home. She stated that this inborn gift was one which had propelled the active role of women globally in being at the forefront of changing societies. Debayo-Doherty urged women to collectively support one another, grow individual capacity and competence, take chances and maximise opportunities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  