Mudiaga Affe The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has come under renewed attacks by some prominent Nigerians for refusing to physically address Nigerians on the coronavirus pandemic. Unlike many other world leaders who are constantly addressing their citizens on the virus, Buhari’s physical silence has been described as unpardonable. A former governor of Kaduna State in the Second Republic, Alhaji Balarabe Musa; a former Minister of Corporation and Integration in Africa, Dr Abimbola Ogunkelu; as well as a professor of political science and Lagos-based public policy analyst, Femi Otubanjo, said the President’s inaction showed there was no coordinated leadership. Balarabe said, “This (Buhari’s silence) is surprising and it shows that the man is in a different world completely. Look at the presidents of France, the United States, Prime Minister of Britain and others, they are all talking to their people constantly but in our case, we do not hear anything from the President. Does he mean that he is in a different world and he knows better? This is bad.” Also, Ogunkelu condemned Buhari’s silence and said he could have delegated the Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo, to speak to the people. “This is a difficult time, but I think the President might have his reasons for not addressing Nigerians at this time. It is hoped that one day, he will explain to the Nigerian people and possibly apologise to them. Similarly, Otubanjo said it was odd and inexcusable for the President not to be talking to the people at these unprecedented times. He said, “This is clearly the worst crisis in this country and the whole of mankind. It is a ruthless pandemic. Every nation is struggling to manage this crisis with its highest authorities and best brains.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 