Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki A 48-year-old man, Ogbonna Nwafor, was on Friday remanded in prison custody by an Ebonyi State magistrates’ court sitting in Abakaliki for allegedly killing his wife. City Round gathered that the suspect allegedly killed his wife after they quarrelled the previous night. It was alleged that the suspect lifted his wife and hit her on a wheelbarrow which led to her death. Further investigations revealed that the accused person committed the offence at Amachi village, in the Izzi Local Government Area, of the state, on March 5, 2020.  He was arraigned on one count of murder on Friday. The police prosecutor, Inspector Edet Effiong, told the court that the offence was punishable under Section 319 (1) of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. The charge read, “That you, Ogbonna Nwafor, on March 5, 2020, at Amachi, Izzi LGA, under the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did unlawfully cause the death of one Nnenna Nwafor ‘by hitting her on a wheelbarrow, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 319 (1) of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009.” READ ALSO: I was paid N1m for trafficking 100 women to Niger Republic –Suspect There was no appearance in court by a defence counsel and no bail application was made on his behalf. The presiding Chief Magistrate, Mr Chinedu Agama, said the court lacked the jurisdiction to adjudicate on the matter. Agama directed that the accused person be remanded at the Nigerian Correctional Centre, Abakaliki, while his case file and other necessary documents should be transmitted to the Directorate of Public Prosecutions for legal advice. The case was adjourned till April 3, 2020, for report of compliance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 