Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Bandits suspected to be members of a cult, on Sunday, reportedly attacked the Emuren Estate in the Sagamu Local Government Area of Ogun State and killed three persons, including a police inspector and a pastor. Our correspondent gathered that the bandits unleashed mayhem on the community during a robbery operation in the area. It was learnt that the police inspector, the pastor and a yet-to-be identified bricklayer were killed by the bandits during the operation. An eyewitness told our correspondent that the bandits, who were allegedly led by a popular cultist identified as Ijalo, had been terrorising residents of the community for over two months. It was gathered that the bandits had robbed the residents of their belongings on several occasions, thereby creating tension in the community. The eyewitness explained that the police officer and the two other victims were shot dead during an attack by the bandits. The slain inspector, identified as Christian Olumiyan, was said to be attached to a company on the estate. It was learnt that Olumiyan had previously been attached to Imota, Emuren and Simawa by the Police Mobile Unit 2, Obalende. The inspector was attacked and shot dead by the bandits while waiting to board a motorcycle, while many residents of the estate sustained varying degrees of injury. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident. Oyeyemi said the bandits killed a police inspector, a pastor and a bricklayer. The PPRO explained that the bandits came into the community and started shooting indiscriminately. He added that the state police command had launched an investigation into the incident to ensure that the perpetrators were brought to justice. Oyeyemi vowed that the police would not rest until members of the gang were apprehended. He said, “It is true that the incident happened in Emuren; the bandits killed three persons, including a police officer, who was an inspector. READ ALSO: Police nab lady for killing lover in Imo “The police inspector was attached to a company in the area. A pastor and a bricklayer were also killed during the clash. “Some cultists came to the town and started shooting indiscriminately. “Their mission is still unknown. We are fully investigating the incident. As I am talking to you, we have policemen in Emuren. “Our men from the Homicide Section, other tactical squads and the Anti-Cultism Unit are presently in that place. “We believe that those who carried out that act will be brought to justice no matter how long it will take us. “We cannot allow some hoodlums to make life difficult for members of the public.” Oyeyemi added that the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered a manhunt for the perpetrators. The PPRO said, “The Commissioner of Police has directed that a massive manhunt should be launched for those behind that perpetrated the stupid act. “We are working round the clock to make sure that we get them and we will surely get them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 