Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Congress of University Academics on Tuesday dissociated itself  from the Academic Staff Union of Universities’ indefinite strike  which began on Monday. ASUU has been locked in a fierce battle with the Federal Government over the latter’s insistence on  federal university lecturers  enrolling on the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System. The body is also angered  by government’s  non-implementation of the 2009 FGN-ASUU agreement. ASUU National President Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi  said they opted for an indefinite strike  after their warning strike because the FG  failed to address the issues they had  raised. But CONUA condemned the strike,  saying it  would worsen  the country’s problems. In a statement  by its   National Coordinator, Dr Niyi Sunmonu, and National Publicity Secretary, Dr Ernest Nwoke, CONUA described  the strike as “utterly insensitive, irresponsible and a betrayal of national trust.” The breakaway ASUU group directed its members to join the battle to beat coronavirus. The  statement  read in part, “The Congress of University Academics members nationwide wish to identify with fellow Nigerians at this trying period and urge everyone to adhere strictly to all precautionary measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the country. “CONUA acknowledges that this is the time when Nigerian academics should be working on overdrive to find solutions to the problems of COVID-19 or at least reduce its virulence. “CONUA  therefore regards it as  utterly insensitive, irresponsible and a betrayal of national trust for any academic union to go on strike at this time, especially when another union (the Nigerian Medical Association) that was  on strike called it  off  to respond to the dreadful coronavirus. “ASUU’s strike will  aggravate the country’s problems and deepen national anxiety. Consequently, CONUA strongly dissociates itself from the decision of the ASUU to embark on a nationwide strike in these national and global trying times. “CONUA wishes to restate for the umpteenth time  that we are not members of ASUU, ASUU’s claim of speaking for all members of academics in Nigerian universities is totally incorrect. “CONUA therefore dissociates itself from activities of ASUU, particularly the current declaration of a nationwide strike in this critical period of national and global emergency.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  