Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria is exploring opportunities to enhance the management and operational effectiveness of the nation’s airports with Munich Airport, Germany. The Managing Director of FAAN, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, recently led a delegation of the organisation and other stakeholders to Germany on the development. Yadudu stated that Munich airport was one of the world’s most successful airports, adding that the visit was part of the commitment of the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, to ensure that key airports in country measured favourably with their counterparts in other parts of the world, especially in terms of management, operational efficiency and safety. According to Yadudu, the move was focused on exploring potential for developmental partnership with Munich Airport to enhance the agency’s performance and service delivery. Among key officers at the exchange programme, which is part of the partnership, is the Director of Human Resources, Mr Noris Anozie. Anozie said the programme was very important as it would further afford FAAN the opportunity of exploring modern trends for strategically enhancing the development and deployment of its human capacity for optimal performance in a dynamic and highly critical industry such as aviation. The Managing Director of FCI International, Mr Fortune Idu, who facilitated the airport exchange programme with Munich Airport, said it had exposed the delegation to the intricate workings of a five-star airport such as Munich. He noted that the exposure would enhance FAAN’s capacity to effectively deliver on its key performance indices through the design and implementation of benchmarking processes that would enable it to address developmental operational and safety challenges. Idu said he was impressed with the composition of the delegation which comprised both old and young officers. He said it was a strategic move on the part of the agency’s management to ensure mentorship aimed at building critical manpower necessary for future air transport professionals. While commending Yadudu and Anozie for their purposeful initiative in ensuring the implementation and success of the programme, he said it would help reposition the nation’s airports for profitability. Meanwhile, the agency said it planned to have a conference on ‘Advancing the frontiers of possibilities for safe, secure and profitable air transport’ aimed at providing a veritable platform for brainstorming and sharing knowledge and ideas on contemporary developments in the global aviation industry. The General Manager, Corporate Affairs of FAAN, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, said the conference slated for April 1 to 4, in Abuja would bring together captains of industries, top government functionaries, aviation experts and key stakeholders. She added that it would feature an investment forum focused on attracting local and international investors for investment opportunities in the country’s aviation industry. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  