Femi Makinde A lecturer at  the Faculty of Law, University of Jos, Prof Nnamdi Aduba, has said electronic voting will not stop electoral fraud  in the country. The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Mamhood Yakubu, said at a forum in Lagos recently the  2023  general elections  would be done electronically if the Electoral Act was amended. But Aduba, who is also a board member of an election monitor group, the YIAGA, told our correspondent on Friday that as long as office  perks for  politicians remained humongous, vote-rigging and violence would continue irrespective of the mode of election. Aduba said, “Definitely, e-voting will not stop rigging and violence and other malpractices. What political officer holders get is  huge and they won’t want it to stop. I am a professor of 20 years and my take-home pay is not up to N500,000 but when some characters now win elections as lawmakers, before they even start to work, about N20m is released to each of them. “Do you think those ones will not be desperate to frustrate any system you may want to use to stop them? The minimum wage is N30,000 and some states are finding it difficult to pay. As long as we continue on transactional politics, malpractices will continue. “If we want to stop malpractices, we must drastically reduce  the monetary rewards attached to elective offices. By doing this, people with passion for service will step out and those ones after money will go back.” Similarly,  Prof  Bolaji Omitola, a lecturer at the Department of Political Science at the Osun State University, said e-voting might only  reduce electoral malpractices, it would not stop them completely. Omitola said despite some advanced democracies  using electronic voting,  electoral malpractice  had not stopped. Omitola  added  that electronic voting was not 100 per cent error-free. He said, “As a matter of fact, some countries tried e-voting and stopped it. It is not foolproof even in the developed countries.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  