’Tosin Oluwalowo Chairman of the League Management Company, Shehu Dikko, says players in the Nigeria Professional Football League have enough quality to excel in the Super Eagles. The NPFL players have been overlooked by Gernot Rohr in recent years except for goalkeeper Ikechukwu Ezenwa who also plays second fiddle to Daniel Akpeyi. Speaking with our correspondent, Dikko, said the decision was solely the choice of coaches in charge of the Eagles to include local league players in the team, as he said the LMC had been able to work on the barriers which limited the use of home-based players. According to him, in times past, home-based players had exceled playing for the Eagles. “Football is the same language, everybody can play, it is just the mindset of the coach and what he wants. In those days, we used to have issues that when the national team are playing, our league would be on break and when we are playing, the national team are on break. But now, we have tried to align the calendar, so, as our national teams are playing now, our league is also in top shape,” Dikko told The PUNCH. “There are players across the league that are also good, so, it depends on the coach’s selection. Remember, during the time Sunday Oliseh was coach, for the first World Cup qualifiers, the first leg we played, we had the foreign-based players and we drew that game and during the second leg we played in Port Harcourt, Oliseh decided to drop the professionals and drafted in six players from the league, even Mikel Obi was benched at that time and we won the game. “A number of our players also leave the league and in the next two or three months, you see them playing for the Eagles. When you look at our squad to the 2018 World Cup, almost more than 10 of them had played in the league. Etebo was just around eight months out of the league when he played at the World Cup and Ahmed Musa was also the league’s top scorer before. “This shows that we have the qualities, it’s just that some coaches don’t believe in them. The last time we won the Africa Cup of Nations, it was the home-based players who made the difference, the player (Sunday Mba) that scored the winning goal in the final was from the league. We have always had the quality needed for the national team if given the chance,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 