The power of such investments further underpins the company’s credibility credentials and make its operations ineffable. It allows the organisations to grow beyond socio-economic and political borders, becoming institutional behemoths in their respective localities. Like Helen Keller said in one of her quotes, “alone we can do so little, together we can do so much.” We believe there is strength in numbers and working together makes us greater. In line with this thought, Leadway Assurance has had the opportunity to secure the confidence of notable internationally-acclaimed entities which have invested in the business. One worthy of mention is Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest reinsurer, based in Zurich, Switzerland. Swiss Re has been Leadway’s reinsurance partner for over 25 years, a thriving commercial relationship that has brought the brand increased credibility and unquantifiable equity. As one of the world’s leading providers of reinsurance and insurance services, with the brand promise “smarter together”, Swiss Re Group has been blossoming through investment diversification since its inception in 1863. They are operational in more than 25 countries, ranking 118th in Forbes 2000 global leading companies in 2016, and 313th in Fortune Global 500 in 2015. In July 2016, Swiss Re decided to acquire a 25% stake in Leadway Assurance, consolidating the long-standing relationship with an investment that allows Swiss Re to deploy capital in line with its strategy of accessing new risk pools in emerging markets and support insurance development across the globe. This strategic investment commemorated the beginning of an exciting chapter in Leadway’s history, even though the relationship with Swiss Re started years ago when Leadway was in the process of ramping up its direct and personal line insurance operation into commercial line insurance operations to compete in a market that was governed by much older foreign-linked insurers. In those years, Leadway enjoyed steady growth while providing cohesive insurance and financial services to its various clients and policyholders. As business entities, our posterity and strength lie in working together with superior and value-adding entities to apply fresh perspectives, knowledge and capital to anticipate and manage risk. It is this strategy that has been instrumental to Leadway’s capacity to create smarter solutions for our customers, help Africa insurance market rebuild, renew and move forward, one assurance at a time. We understood clearly that the harmonising capabilities and aligned underwriting philosophies of the two organisations would bring great opportunities for Leadway Assurance to emerge as a leading African financial institution. Risk-taking is vital for human and societal progress. The only reason why people succeed, and businesses expand is because of the determination to leap forward, collaborate and evolve despite uncertainties. Since 1970, Leadway has been consistent in the pursuit of its vision to deepen insurance penetration to the African continent, ensuring that the risk management benefits of insurance coverage reach groundswell awareness levels. Investments such as the Swiss Re’s equity acquisition is making the realisation of this goal possible just as it has enabled the company to shore enough capital to meet the latest regulatory requirements for industry recapitalisation. We are glad to be affiliated with these international entities who are helping the company take insurance to newer heights. For more on how you can access Leadway’s international-backed bouquet of products and services, please call us on 08088578050 or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com.