Samson Folarin An anti-corruption group, Human and Environmental Development Agenda, has given the Federal Government 30 days ultimatum to prosecute a former Director-General of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi, Chima Igwe. The group said if Igwe was not prosecuted within the time frame, it would institute legal action against the government. Igwe was removed from his position after a report by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission showed he had yet to complete his PhD, which he claimed he acquired in 2001 from Universite d’Abomey-Calavi, Benin Republic. He had, however, earned salaries for years based on the phantom claim. In a petition addressed to the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, HEDA urged the Federal Government to ensure that Igwe faced the full weight of the law. “There cannot be two laws for poor and rich Nigerians. Ordinary people who forged documents are jailed. The rich should not be spared. Mr Igwe till date has not justified that he earned a PhD. “He has to explain to Nigerians whether he actually earned a PhD or not. It was on the basis of his so called PhD that he earned salaries and privileges from the public resources for 17 years,” the HEDA Chairman, Mr Olanrewaju Suraju, wrote in the petition. According to Suraju, the failure of the former acting DG to produce his certificate is against the provisions of Section 105 of the Criminal Code Act, which states that “any person who, being authorised or required by law to give any certificate touching any matter by virtue whereof the rights of any person may be prejudicially affected, gives a certificate which is, to his knowledge, false in any material particular, is guilty of a felony and is liable to imprisonment for three years”. HEDA said Igwe’s action amounted to obtaining under false pretences as stated in Section 418 of the Criminal Code Act. “Any representation made by words, writing, or conduct, of a matter of fact, either past or present, which representation is false in fact and which the person making it knows to be false or does not believe to be true, is a false pretence,” the section stated. HEDA said the Attorney General was empowered in Section 174 (1(a) of the 1999 Constitution to prosecute Igwe. “We demand the immediate prosecution of the former acting DG within 30 days from the receipt of this petition. And in the event that our request is not acceded to within the slated timeframe, we shall not hesitate to institute an action before a court of competent jurisdiction to compel the discharge of your constitutional duties as related to this matter,” the petition said.