Ife Ogunfuwa The Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards 2020 has awarded N1m cash prize to the winner of the Best Overall Movie ‘Living in Bondage. A statement on Thursday stated that the awards aimed to recognise the indelible mark of entertainers on the industry and audiences across Africa, and retaining its position as the most anticipated film and television awards in Africa. It said headline sponsor, Amstel Malta, delivered on its promise of giving fans an exclusive, front-row action to the AMVCAs by kicking off in-store activations across major shopping outlets. The organisers added that Amstel Malta surprised shoppers with front-row tickets to the AMVCAs while the winner of the Fan Reporter Online competition got exclusive front-row and back-stage access, along with an incredible opportunity to interact with celebrities at the awards. According to the statement, there were exciting pre-awards activities lined up such as a sponsored segment hosted by Dakore Egbuson on ‘The Spot’ – a light-hearted, bare-all interview programme – where movie fans connected to their favourite AMVCA nominated actors and actresses. In a non-film prize category, it said Amstel Malta rewarded the best dressed of the night, both male and female. It stated that Mike Edwards and Mercy Eke, were voted winners in this category and they both took home shopping vouchers worth N500,000 with a Nigerian designer of their choice. Speaking at the event, the Senior Brand Manager, Amstel Malta, Aminah Jagun, said, “Just as the AMVCA has, over the years, stayed true to its promise to support and celebrate outstanding achievements in Film and Television in Nollywood, Amstel Malta has also been a principal supporter for the growth of cinema and Theatre Arts. “Our goal this year was to give fans an exclusive, front-row action to the awards, and we were able to deliver that through all our activities in support of the awards. Gifts were won, all-access tickets were given, and we connected fans with their favorite stars. We hope to do more in the coming years as Nollywood continues to expand globally.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   