John Ameh, Daud Olatunji and Abiodun Nejo The President, Major General  Muhammadu Buhari (retd.),  has called on health  workers to be patient with his regime to address their demands as the country tackles coronavirus. He stated that the outbreak of the disease had posed fresh challenges for the economy, especially the impact on crude oil revenue. Buhari made the appeal in Abuja when members of the Joint Health Sector Unions  and Assembly Healthcare Professionals Associations visited him at the Presidential Villa on Tuesday. He said, “Your case is certainly receiving attention, but you must bear in mind the condition that the country is in now. Coronavirus is not improving matters. “It is affecting what we very much depend on, the petroleum industry and therefore revenue.” The  unions have been demanding an upward review of the Consolidated Health Salary Structure. In addition to CONHESS, the workers have also protested  against the non-payment of their April and May 2018 salaries. They have also pressed for the gazetting of scheme of service for nurses and the payment of teaching allowances. In 2019, JOHESU threatened a seven-day warning strike over the issues. However, meeting with Buhari on Tuesday where the issues were again raised, the President urged patience and appealed for support to enable the country to tackle the coronavirus threat first. “So please try and help us with your people. Let us be patriotic, let us look at the ways and means of the government and appeal for restraint,” a statement by Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr Garba Shehu, quoted the President as saying. “We have to emphasise that it is very important we maintain cohesion together, because if we allow sentiments or popularity to overwhelm our reasoning faculties, we will be in trouble and it will be too late for us to adjust, so please bear with us.” But JOHESU and AHPA, led by Biobelemoye Josiah, still pressed for the issues affecting the members, though they commended the Buhari regime for some of the achievements it recorded in the health sector. They  commended Buhari for signing the National Health Act and “rejecting the advice of stakeholders who clamoured for the privatisation of the health sector.” How second virus  case was  uncovered  —Ogun Meanwhile, the Ogun State  Commissioner for Health, Dr Tomi Coker, has  said  one of the 40 people  quarantined  for  having  contact with the  Italian who brought coronavirus  to the country,  exposed the second case. According to her,  the second   coronavirus   patient   has  not developed any symptoms of the killer disease. The Minister of Health Osagie Ehanire said  on Monday the latest  coronavirus patient came into contact with the Italian man  who   arrived in Lagos   on February 24 from Milan on a Turkish Airlines flight. However, Ehanire, who spoke to reporters in Benin,  said  the second patient “has no significant clinical symptoms.” Coker  said in  a statement on Tuesday that both the first and second cases were detected in Ogun  before they were transferred to Lagos  for further monitoring. She  said the  measures  put in place by the state government  to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the state  had been  yielding positive results. The commissioner said it could  have been devastating if the state government  had  not  been proactive to trace  those  who had contact with the  Italian. She said, “The case was confirmed from one of the 40 people who had contact with the first Italian index and had earlier been quarantined after testing their blood samples. “If we had not been proactive to have tracked down those who  had contact with the first Italian index, he would have been spreading it everywhere. “Even the person identified, up until now has not developed any symptoms.” However, Coker   said   she was optimistic that the remaining 39 people under isolation  would soon be declared free of the virus. She  called on  residents of the state  not to  panic because  the state government  would  stop the spread of the virus. Ekiti distributes free sanitisers In a related development, the Ekiti State Commissioner for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade,  has said the state government has begun the  distribution of hand sanitisers to  public primary and secondary schools as well as palaces in the state to prevent coronavirus spread. Yaya-Kolade insisted  the state government was  committed  to ensuring  that  Ekiti residents did not  contract   the virus. The commissioner, who spoke on an Ado Ekiti  radio programme on Tuesday, denied that  the state had received money  from the Federal Government to fight the spread of the disease. Yaya-Kolade advised  residents  to embrace personal hygiene. UN headquarters closed to tourists Meanwhile, the United Nations on Tuesday closed its New York headquarters to the general public to help prevent the spread of coronavirus, a spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said, AFP reports. The move comes one week after a similar measure was taken at the main UN building in Geneva. “As of now, we have not been advised of any COVID-19 cases amongst UN staff in New York,” UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said in a statement. Some 3,000 people work in the iconic building overlooking the East River in Midtown Manhattan, the scene of annual gatherings of world leaders. Normally, some 5,000 tourists visit the building each week in guided tours. About 500,000 people visit the UN headquarters each year, not all tourists, officials said. “The United Nations will continue to monitor the situation closely and further measures may be taken as circumstances evolve,” Dujarric said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  