Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, on Tuesday expressed his support for the call for the lockdown of Lagos State and the country at large over coronavirus. Tinubu, who called for the lockdown after a closed-door meeting with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the State House, Marina, noted that many countries had locked down over the rising cases of the disease. The APC leader, while urging Nigerians to embrace the social distancing measures to prevent the spread of the virus, noted that other measures being introduced would teach Nigerians how to be hygienic at all times. Tinubu, however, commended Sanwo-Olu on the measures rolled out to curtail the spread of the disease, noting that he had shown leadership in the implementation of the response strategy to manage the confirmed cases and tracing of suspected cases. He said, “I congratulate the governor for the fact that he asked the workers to stay at home to discontinue the chain of transmission. We must respect this order and obey the government. We endorse the position of the governor. Let people stay at home in this period and pray in their houses. “We need to observe social distancing. It is a new culture that we have to abide with. I will support total lockdown if the government decides to do that. I am in support of it. There should be a total lockdown if the government observes that we are not complying. “I could listen attentively to the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Boris Johson, yesterday (Tuesday); and Great Britain is under lockdown now. If we have to do it, the government will do it. “I can’t pre-empt what the governor would be doing next but whatever decision he takes, he has our support. We have reviewed the previous measures with him and he has also reviewed with his team. We have confidence in the team; whatever they say, we will comply.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  