Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin The United Bank for Africa on Monday boosted the fight against the coronavirus in Kwara  State with a donation of N28.5m. Also, the state Technical Committee on COVID-19 said that it shut down a church in Idofian, a suburb of Ilorin on Sunday, while 15 transporters were arrested and 80 motorcycles seized on Monday for alleged violation of the partial lockdown rules in the state. Presenting the cheque to the state Deputy Governor, Mr Kayode Alabi, who is the chairman of the Technical Committee on COVID19, in the state, Mr Kazeem Salaudeen, Head of UBA in Kwara, said it was the financial institution’s way of supporting the government in the fight against the spread of the virus. The deputy governor, in his reaction, expressed appreciation to the bank for the gesture and promised that the money would be domiciled in the bank for accountability purposes. He also promised that the funds would be judiciously used to ensure that the state contain coronavirus and manage the situation very well. Earlier before the presentation, Alabi had briefed members of the committee on COVID-19 that no fewer than 15 transporters were arrested on Monday for violating the government’s directive and protocols on the partial lockdown imposed on the people to curtail the spread of coronavirus in the state. The deputy governor disclosed that no fewer than 80 motorcycles were sized for violating the stay-at-home order. Alabi said he had directed that none of the arrested persons or property sized should be released out until he gaves any further directive from him. He commended the members of the task force for their selfless services even as the deputy governor disclosed that the team shut down a church in Idofian, a suburb of Ilorin on Sunday while members were preparing for service. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  