Sola Shittu, Benin The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, and his estranged political godfather, Adams Oshiomhole, have commenced consultations to end the political rift between them. Obaseki’s Chief of Staff, Mr Taiwo Akerele, revealed this while responding to questions from reporters during an event to mark his 44th birthday in Benin, on Sunday. He said it was too early to reveal how far deliberations had gone but expressed confidence that appreciable progress had been made. Akerele said, “When the time comes, we will invite you just like this and address you.” He said this in response to a question from The PUNCH as to whether the duo had reached out to each other since Oshiomhole announced a truce last week. The governor’s aide added, “(For) the Governor, getting the ticket is not in contention but we will go into primaries and the party has a formula for it. It can be either consensus or none consensus, whichever it is, Obaseki and Philip are ready. Ordinarily he should be given the right of first refusal. “Oshiomhole and Obaseki are very close; nobody should be deceived even as we speak. But of course, the issue they have is political and it is resolvable. “The difference they have is political disagreement and it is resolvable; some factors came in and heightened the tension, otherwise this is a very minor thing. Remember, we were in Iyamoh during the Sallah celebration, that was in the middle of the crisis, we were there and we even blamed the media for the whole thing.” He expressed gratitude to Obaseki for giving him the opportunity to serve in his government especially because he had no political godfather. According to him, his appointment marked the very first time a person from Akoko-Edo was given such an important position in government. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  