Ada Wodu, Calabar Two chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party in Cross River State gunning for the state chairmanship seat of the party have traded blames over the alleged assault on one of them on Tuesday. One of them, Venatius Ikem, a former National Publicity Secretary of the party, alleged at a news conference on Tuesday that he was attacked by his opponent, Alphonsus Eba-Ogar at Transcorp Hotel in Calabar. He said, “He slapped me several times and asked his boys to beat me up. Though I did not sustain any physical injury, I have a slight pain in the left side of my chest.” Ikem, whose candidacy is supported by members of the National Assembly representing the state and founders of the party in the state, alleged manipulation of the process of electing the state chairman of the party. He said he decided to contest  the chairmanship of the party because he had the experience to restore internal democracy but was inundated with speculations that he and others were going to be disqualified though he played by the rules in filing his nomination. He said he went to the hotel to find out what was going on regarding the congress when he was allegedly attacked at the hotel where the panel members lodged. Reacting to the allegation, Alphonsus Eba-Ogar said, “Why will I beat him up? If he is contesting state chairmanship of the PDP which I am also interested in, does that make me his enemy to beat him up? “Let him tell you people what happened. Where was he? What did he go to do? Who did he try to strangle? It’s Amina (a member of the panel that came to conduct the state congresses). “If Amina’s boy who was there prevented him from killing his own boss, he shouldn’t rope us in because he feels I am running election with him. “There is nothing to struggle about. It is for delegates to decide who will be chairman. Let him not smear my name. “Congresses have been suspended. Whenever there is congress we will meet on the field.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   