Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command has revealed that the Uber passenger, Princewill David, who jumped into the lagoon, did so in order to escape justice after allegedly killing his girlfriend. PUNCH Metro had reported that David, a resident of Tajudeen Balogun Street, Igando, Lagos, had boarded an Uber from his residence to the Lekki area of the state on February 27, 2020. On getting to the Third Mainland Bridge around 12am, David reportedly asked the driver to stop to allow him to urinate, but the driver, who had learnt about the same tactics allegedly used by one Toju Daibo before allegedly plunging into the lagoon  12 days earlier, drove to where some personnel of the Rapid Response Squad were stationed on the bridge to alert them. But before he could inform the policemen, David had come out of the Volkswagen Jetta car and jumped into the lagoon. The 28-year-old, however, landed on some floating logs of wood underneath the bridge and was later rescued by the RRS personnel, the Marine Police Unit and some local divers. The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, said on Thursday while parading some suspected criminals at the command’s headquarters in Ikeja, stated that David had an altercation with his yet-to-be-identified girlfriend and killed her in the process. The CP stated that David booked the Uber and asked the driver to go through the Third Mainland Bridge and alighted at a point and jumped into the lagoon so as to escape prosecution for the crime. Odumosu stated, “He had an altercation with his girlfriend and killed her in a hotel and went to jump into the lagoon to escape justice for the crime he committed.” On Toju, the CP said, “If a corpse has not been seen, we cannot declare that person dead.” The CP also paraded an herbalist, Olawale Shodolamu, 70; a gravedigger, Seun Falana; and a human parts buyer, Dauda Tijani, for dealing in human parts. Odumosu said Tijani was on his way to deliver a human skull to the herbalist when personnel of the command intercepted him and found the skull in his possession. “He confessed that he was sent by the herbalist, Olawale Shodolamu, 70. The herbalist was also arrested and he claimed that he bought the human skull from one Seun Falana, 37, an employee of the Trinity Cemetery in Ajegunle, Lagos, for N10,000. The third suspect was equally arrested,” Odumosu said. When asked why he ventured into selling human parts, Falana stated, “I am a contract worker at the cemetery and they usually pay me N2,000 for each grave I dig. One day, this man (Tijani) came to me and said he needed a skull to treat his leg and I agreed to get it for him. “My boss gave me a job to do that day and when I started digging the ground, I saw a skull, so I called him to come and pick it. I sold it to him for N10,000.” Shodolamu said he used the skull to prepare a concoction for stroke patients, adding that none of his patients new that human skulls were being used for the concoction that he used to give them. “I use skulls to prepare concoction for stroke patients and I have cured about 50 stroke patients with the concoction. The patients usually drink and bathe with the concoction but none of them knew that I use human skulls. I buy each skull for N20,000 and I have patronised Tijani on two separate occasions,” he stated. In the Ogudu, Ikorodu, Imota, Agbowa, Owutu, Ijede, Ipakodo, Owode Onirin and other areas of the state, Odumosu said the command had arrested no fewer than 164 suspected armed robbers, 165 cultists and 103 murder suspects in the last 119 days. Out of the 10 suicide cases recorded within the period, the CP explained that the command foiled seven attempts. He added that as a result of the restriction of motorcycle and tricycle operations in the state, a total of 3,512 motorcycles and 202 tricycles had been impounded and 40 suspects arrested. He noted that 25 traffic offenders had also been arrested and prosecuted for driving against the traffic. Out of the 165 suspected cultists arrested in the state, Odumosu said 16 were apprehended during a supremacy clash that left two persons dead and threw residents of the Ogudu area into panic. “The command’s Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants and other tactical units, including the Rapid Response Squad, were deployed in Ogudu to restore sanity in the area. Nineteen suspects were arrested on February 2, 2020. The suspects will be charged,” the CP said. Three men, Sunday Shaibu, Samson Akoh and Daniel Agala, were also arrested for parading themselves as policemen and apprehending unsuspecting members of the public, mostly motorcyclists, for various offences, and impounding their motorcycles. Odumosu said, “Their modus operandi involved stopping their victims at strategic locations and arresting them for traffic offences. They extort money from the victims, impound their motorcycles and tell them to meet them at the police station to collect the motorcycles with proof of ownership and other necessary documents. “After the victims must have left to get the documents, the suspects would quickly disappear with the motorcycles to where they would contact buyers. The same syndicate snatched a Bajaj motorcycle around 9pm at the Sabo roundabout in Ikorodu. Detectives are still on the trail of the fourth suspect. All the suspects will be charged.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 