The last time Nigeria had a winner was in 1999 when Nwankwo Kanu, the last Nigerian to win the award, watched with dismay at the ceremony at the Albatros Citadel Sahl Hasheesh Resort in Hurghada as none of his countrymen could get their hands on the gong 21 years after he lifted it. New Manchester United striker, Odion Ighalo, who made the final five-man shortlist after emerging top scorer at last year’s Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt was the closest the country got. Outstanding young talents, Victor Osimhen and Samuel Chukwueze, both lost the Youth Player of The Year award to Morocco’s Achraf Hakimi, with Asisat Oshoala the country’s only consolation, winning the Women’s Player of The Year award for the fourth time. Indeed, the closest any of the country’s footballers had got to winning the diadem was in 2013 and 2014 when former Super Eagles captains, Mikel Obi and Vincent Enyeama, placed second and third respectively behind eventual winner, the mercurial Ivoirian midfielder, Yaya Toure. But it hadn’t always been gloom for the country’s players at the awards, which were initiated by France Football magazine in 1970 but was taken over by the Confederation of African Football in 1992. Rashidi Yekini broke a 23-year jinx by becoming the first Nigerian to win the award for the continent’s best player in 1993. Before Yekini’s feat, the closest a Nigerian came to winning it was in 1980, when Segun Odegbami came second, after he inspired the Green Eagles to claim the Africa Cup of Nations that same year, for the first time. He was runner-up to Cameroonian Jean Manga Onguene. The Mathematical as Odegbami is fondly called also placed third in the 1977 edition won by Tunisia’s Tarak Dhiab. However, Yekini, who died in 2012 at 48, put up some eye-popping displays at Portuguese side, Vitória de Setúbal, where he became the Primeira Liga’s top scorer in the 1993/94 season with 21 goals. The previous campaign, he  netted a career-best 34 goals in 32 games to help the Sadinos gain promotion from the second division to the Portuguese topflight, as well as his goals that fired the Eagles to a debut World Cup appearance in the US in 1994. These performances earned him the title of African Player of the Year, the first ever for the nation, in 1993. In 1994, Zamalek winger Emmanuel Amuneke, succeeded Yekini after scoring the winning goals in the final of the AFCON in Tunisia the same year, while Yekini was joint-second with Liberia’s George Weah. Indeed, the year 1993 heralded good fortunes for Nigeria, as the country had at least one player in the top three for the next five years. And even though ex-Barcelona winger Amuneke couldn’t retain the award, he settled for second as Weah claimed the award, while Daniel Amokachi came third in 1995. With Nigeria becoming the first African country to win an Olympic gold medal in a football event in 1996, captain of the side, Kanu won that year’s award, while Amokachi, who was also a member of the team, finished third again. Victor Ikpeba won the award in 1997, after his exploits in France with Monaco, where he won the French Ligue 1 and the Trophee des Champions. Taribo West, who had just moved from French side Auxerre to Inter Milan that same year, finished third. In 1998, Nigeria had two players behind eventual winner Mustapha Hadji, with PSG midfielder Austin Okocha coming second ahead of Sunday Oliseh, who had won the Dutch league with Ajax, in third. Nigeria continued her dominance of the football scene in Africa in 1999, with Kanu winning the award for a second time, after joining English Premier League side Arsenal. That was just a year before the millennium, but ever since, no Nigerian has been able to lay their hands on the coveted gong for the continent’s undisputed or even sometimes disputed best footballer. Thus, the teeming country’s football faithful have endured watching players from rival countries – Cameroon, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Mali, Togo, Algeria and Egypt take home the top prize in the last 20 years. So, what was the magic wand that had Nigerian footballers dominate their African peers in the 1990s? “During the 90s, Nigeria dominated Africa because if we talk of players individually, we had big names who played for top European teams. In Africa then, Nigeria had the best players around, despite the presence of Weah. Whenever you had to pick or select any player at the African level, you had to look at their club performances and at the national team too. Of course Nigerian players were always ahead,” ex-Eagles winger, Tijani Babagida, an integral part of the Eagles side in the 1990s, said. End of an era Unlike in the 1990s, when Nigerian players were prominent on the continent, the 2000s ushered in a new era for Nigerian football. The country’s fortunes began to shrink as her players were no longer a force to reckon with on the continent. The grandeur and aura that had seen Nigerian players a shoulder above the rest on the continent, gradually faded away at the turn of the new millennium. Former Bolton captain Austin Okocha came close twice in 2003 and 2004 but ended in third place as Cameroonian Samuel Eto’o won it on both occasions with Ivoirian Chelsea legend Didier Drogba in second place. According to Babangida, the inability of Nigerian players to seal deals with top European clubs is a huge factor contributing to the dwindling fortunes of the country at the CAF best player award. “Most of our players now play in the lower leagues and the national team only won the AFCON once after 1994, and missed out of qualification in the last two editions before 2019, that is the difference,” he added. “In the last awards, we had Ighalo in contention; we also had Mane, who won the Champions League with Liverpool, while Ighalo played in China. If we look at players of this generation, we only had Mikel in that category because he won the Premier League and the Champions League with Chelsea and also won the AFCON with the Eagles. He is the only player who deserved the award but didn’t win it.” So, what went wrong? “I believe the authorities that were at the helm of affairs at that time (early 2000s) should be held responsible for what is happening to our players,” Babangida added. “Before that time we used to have a smooth transition at the national team from the 80s to the 90s, until 2000. Nigeria played a completely different kind of football and we always had alternative players before others retired. When Segun Odegbami was leaving, we tried to find Tarila Okorowanta and Clement Tamile and everyone got used to our football. “But the problem of the 2002 World Cup, when 80 per cent of players quit the team without suitable replacements, led us to this. The administrators at that time should apologise to Nigerians because they are the ones responsible for the decline.” Former Eagles goalkeeper Ike Shorunmu, attributed the 20-year dry patch to the present footballers’ penchant  for hurriedly prepared trips overseas in search of greener pastures without being properly groomed in the Nigerian league. “During our time, players left Nigeria for big clubs in Europe, where they flourished and won laurels, this helped push Nigeria’s name to global reckoning,” Shorunmu told our correspondent. “This however isn’t the case these days and because of the quest to travel out, they leave the local league when they have not fully established themselves, leaving for unknown clubs in obscure leagues. You can’t be named Africa’s number one player from such leagues.” While there’s a widely held belief that Francophone countries are favoured at the CAF awards, Babangida disagrees, saying it’s high time the players started gaining confidence that would help them compete amongst the best. “I always say this, whenever they see players from other countries doing well, it should be a challenge to them, to fight them and show that they are the best, to show that they are going to play in the best teams in Europe. It’s all about mentality. Our Nigerian players must have that mentality to reach the top, not with a small mindset,” Babangida added. “All these players from French-speaking countries, you are not going to deny that they were the best during their days. Eto’o played for Barcelona, same for Toure, who also played at Manchester City and Drogba, who played for Chelsea. It was only Mikel, who got close to these players, winning the Champions League and the AFCON,” Babangida said. Within the same period, Nigerian players, who had hitherto played in clubs in big leagues across Europe, found it hard to make big money moves. Nigerian players were also no longer regulars in the UEFA Champions League, which was won by Finidi George and Kanu in 1997. Mikel joined the list when he won the trophy with Chelsea in 2012. A ray of hope Recently, while Nigeria suffered at the senior stage in the 2000s, the U-17 team brought succour for the country, winning the World Cup three times in 2007, 2013 and 2015 and also churning out some unbelievable talents in the process. While the likes of Macauley Chrisantus, top scorer at the 2007 U-17 World Cup and Sani Emmanuel, the top scorer and best player at the 2009 edition, where Nigeria finished as runners-up on home soil, failed to blossom, Kelechi Iheanacho, the best player in 2013 and Victor Osimhen, the 2015 top scorer have lived up to expectations, moving to big clubs in Europe and raising the country’s prospect and chances of ending her 20-year wait to have a Nigerian player crowned as Africa’s best. Iheanacho won CAF’s Most Promising Talent of the Year awards in 2013 and 2015, while Osimhen claimed the 2015 CAF Youth Player of the Year award. Iheanacho moved to EPL giants Manchester City, where he gave a good account of himself, before joining Leictester City in 2017. Osimhen also moved to Wolfsburg in Germany, before transferring to Ligue 1 side, Lille in August 2019, after a stint at Sporting Charleroi. He has taken the French league by storm, scoring 10 goals to sit at joint fourth on the scorer’s chart. Samuel Chukwueze, who was Osimhen’s teammate at the 2015 U-17 has also been a revelation since joining La Liga side Villarreal. He was nominated alongside Osimhen for the 2019 Africa Youth Player award, which was won by Achraf Hakimi of Morocco. It is believed that these players including Wilfred Ndidi, who was also in the 10-man shortlist for the 2019 Player of The year and has been in good form for Leicester City, have what it takes to claim the crown in no distant future. Babangida agrees with this, saying at the moment, the country has the best array of young talents in Africa, who are ready to take the world by storm. “If Chukwueze and any of these younger ones find themselves in a big club, Madrid or Barcelona or Liverpool and they do very well in the Champions League and Nigeria do very well, we will win another award. It is a challenge for them, they must try to be in a top team, they must play very high in the Champions League. “We have the best youth team in Africa at the moment and if Senegal decline, Nigeria are going to be above them in less than two years because Chukwueze and the rest are coming. These are all younger players that offer great prospect for the Eagles, so I can assure you that almost five of these players will be in contention for the award if they don’t decline,” Babangida said. Shorunmu also added that for any of the players to get to the top, they have to possess a great attitude aside from talent. He said, “The players need to continue to be level-headed before they can become the best. “I used to tell footballers that aside from talent, you also need attitude to excel as a footballer. We can see how good Mario Balotelli is, he however has not been able to sustain his form because of his attitude. “So, for the likes of Osimhen, Chukwueze and Ndidi, I believe they have what it takes to win the award in the nearest future. They will however need to keep playing well so they can continue to get playing time and then big clubs in Europe will come knocking for them.” “I believe with what we have now and with most of our players getting to good clubs and playing in good leagues, having playing time and coming to the national team to compete and do well, I believe that will bring us back to those glorious days. “If our young players continue  hard and if they continue to be at the top level, playing very with their clubs and doing well for the national team, I think they can win the best player award,” Adepoju added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    