Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority says it has become mandatory for passengers travelling into and out of Nigeria to be in possession of a valid yellow card. Yellow card is an international travel document indicating dates and history of a passenger’s vaccination for yellow fever. In a circular sent to all airlines operating regional and international flights and signed by the Director of Operations and Training, Capt. Abdullahi Sidi, the NCAA said the policy was due to the ongoing outbreaks of yellow fever in the country. The regulatory agency said in line with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig. CARS) Parts 18820.1, 18822.1, 18822.2 and 18822.3, all airlines operating regional and international flights into and out of the country should inform all intending passengers to be in possession of a valid e-yellow. The NCAA said airlines must also make the possession of a valid e-yellow card a mandatory pre-boarding requirement for all passengers travelling into and out of the country The circular read in part, “Airlines operating regional and international flights into and out of the country are hereby informed of the ministerial approval of the Nigeria Points of Entry Policy on the prevention and control of cross border transmission of yellow fever in Nigeria. “Due to the ongoing outbreaks of yellow fever in the country there is the urgent need to fully operotionolise the policy. Full compliance with this policy will enhance health security in Nigeria and support the global strategy to eliminate Yellow Fever epidemic.” According to the NCAA, the World Health Organisation recommends vaccination against yellow fever for all international travelers aged nine months to 60 years entering or exiting Nigeria. Meanwhile, it was gathered on Friday that in compliance with the NCAA directives, Emirates had issued a circular mandating its passengers into and out of Nigeria to have an electronic yellow card. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 