Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The leadership of the Inter-Party Advisory Committee in Osun State has declared support for Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, over the reversal of some policies introduced by the immediate past administration in the state. A statement by Ismail Omipidan, Chief Press Secretary to Osun State Governor on Wednesday said chairman of IPAC, Olatunji Popoola, during a courtesy visit to the governor in his office, also said review of the policies had given education sector a rebirth. Olatunji said the action taken by the Oyetola administration regarding the policies was in fulfilment of the governor’s pledge to run a participatory and an all-inclusive government. Assuring the governor of the group’s support, Olatunji noted that as long as the government continues to fulfil its promises to the people, the association would continue to cooperate with it. He said, “I must say with all sense of responsibility and sincerity that your resolution on the education policy is a welcome development. You have given Osun education a rebirth and the people of our dear state would continue to be grateful to you for doing the needful even when it is perceived impossible. “Also, your steadiness and consistency in the payment of full salaries to all categories of workers including pensioners can never be over-emphasised in spite of the meagre resources to the state. We recognise your tremendous achievements in all sectors.” Oyetola lauded the leadership and members of the group for identifying with the government and reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to continue to ensure human capital and infrastructural development in all strata of the economy. The governor, who appealed to members of the group to maintain their integrity as noble and credible individuals, said “you must continue to see yourselves as stakeholders in the affairs of the state.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  