Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin The peace talks called to resolve the dispute that followed the revocation of the disputed land on which Ile Arugbo was built in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, has collapsed, the lawyers involved in the parley have said. Counsel for both Asa Investment Limited owned by the late Dr Olusola Saraki, Mr Abdulrazeez Ibrahim and the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Salman Jawondo, who is representing the Kwara State Government, told a Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin on Monday that the peace parley had collapsed. Consequently, Justice Abiodun Adebara has fixed March 25, 2020  for the hearing of the suit challenging the  Kwara State Government’s revocation of the land allegedly owned by the late Saraki. Justice Adebara had at the last sitting of the court on January 24 advised the parties involved in the case to employ dialogue in resolving the issue in the interest of peace. Thereafter, counsel for both the claimants and the defendants held peace meetings on February 6 and 11 at the Governor’s Office, Ilorin. However, Ibrahim, counsel for the Asa Investment Limited, told the court that the peace talks collapsed over irreconcilable differences on the terms of amicable settlement of the dispute. Ibrahim listed his client’s terms of settlement to include “the reversal of the revocation order placed on the disputed land, reconstruction of the partially demolished structures on the land and offering of an apology to the aged women that were harassed on the night the structures were pulled down.” He said the state government insisted that the revocation order placed on the disputed land would not be removed. Ibrahim, however, expressed the readiness of his client to forgo the second and third demands in the interest of peace. READ ALSO: We’re helpless over influx of herdsmen into Benue – Ortom However, counsel for the state government, Jawondo, said the peace talks collapsed “when the claimants came out frontally that their demand for the reversal of the revocation order placed on the disputed land was not negotiable.” Jawondo, therefore, sought an adjournment for a proper hearing of the suit. After listening to the argument and counter arguments by the counsel for the claimants and the defendants, Justice Adebara commended both parties and their counsel for meeting twice to find an amicable solution to the crisis as advised by the court. “However, since the two parties have not been able to reach an amicable resolution of the dispute, the suit ought to continue and it’s in this regard that the court will grant an adjournment for hearing,” he said. Justice Adebara hereby adjourned the case till March 25, 2020 for hearing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 