Deji Lambo The Onisiwo family has said that it is the authentic owner of the Tarkwa Bay area down to the Badagry creek in Lagos State. This followed claims to the land by the Lagos State Government and the Nigerian Ports Authority after some personnel of the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Navy invaded the area and sacked the residents from their homes. Several buildings were said to have been demolished during the invasion. Refuting the claims of the state government and the NPA to the land, members of the Onisiwo dynasty said they were the authentic owners of the land, adding that the NPA leased a part of the land from the family. The head of the Onisiwo dynasty, Sikiru Oduwole, said Tarkwa Bay and its environs, up to the Badagry creek, belonged to the family, adding that the NPA was a tenant to the family and owed rent on its property. Oduwole said, “Tarkwa Bay and its environs belong to the Onisiwo family. Tarkwa Bay is not a ‘no man’s land’ as claimed by the Nigerian Navy and the Nigerian Army personnel during the demolition carried out on Thursday, January 23, 2020. “The Nigerian Ports Authority is a tenant of the Onisiwo family and still owes rent on our property. They are not land owners. If anybody thinks he has a claim on the property, they should come out with their documents to prove their ownership.” Another family member, Mulikat Olukoga-Onisiwo, said the family had documents to back up its claim that the NPA had been a tenant on the land for 40 years, adding that the agency breached the contract between it and the family when it subleased the land to another company. She stated, “We heard that the Nigerian Navy said it had instructions from the Federal Government to go and investigate the people doing oil bunkering in the area, but when its personnel got there, they said it was a ‘no man’s land’ and that they saw strangers on the island and that was why they destroyed everything there. This is very wrong, because that place is not a no man’s land. “But when the Nigerian Army said anyone who had a claim to the island should speak up, the next day the NPA and the state government spoke. How can they do that? Are they Olofin’s children? The white caps chiefs own most of the land in Lagos. If you talk of the Onikoyi, he owns the Banana Island; the Oluwa owns Apapa; the Onisiwo owns anything facing the Atlantic Ocean up to the creek of Badagry. “The Nigerian Ports Authority has a lease arrangement with the family since 1976 and we have the documents of payment. Also, we have a judgment on the land, which was obtained by our forefather, Oduntan Onisiwo, in 1861, when the British were trying to encroach on our land. “Oduntan fought them in court and won. We have a copy of the judgment. The NPA has been our tenant for over 40 years, but it has been subleasing the land to another company, which is a breach of contract.” When contacted, the Public Relations Officer, NPA, Jatto Adams, said, “The land belongs to the NPA, forget about any family; let them take us to court. We have taken possession of the land. How can we be their tenant? That is not true. As far as I am concerned, the NPA has authority over the land.” When contacted, the spokesperson for the Lands Bureau, Lagos State, Samuel Ayetutu, asked our correspondent to send him a text message on his enquiries, which was done. He, however, had yet to respond to the message as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 