What is the crux of the current crisis in the assembly considering the fact that it’s populated by members of the All Progressives Congress? Well, I cannot say precisely because you cannot read the mind of anybody. But in terms of the situation in the House as at the time the Speaker made the pronouncement, I want to say the House was peaceful. And to some of us that were affected, it came as a surprise because we cannot say what warranted it other than the Speaker is trying to show power because we were together at the legislative executive parley the week before. You indicated interest in the speakership position before Obasa emerged the Speaker. How would you react to insinuations that the Speaker’s decision was aimed at countering moves by you and some aggrieved members to unseat him? That is laughable. Indeed, every ranking member of the House is entitled to be the Speaker so if one has the intention to be the Speaker, I don’t think there’s any crime in that. The truth of the matter is we are not politicking at the moment. The 9th Assembly has been inaugurated and we’ve been on for about eight months and for me, 2023 is a long time to come. Now on the issue of whether anyone is planning to remove the Speaker, I can say this for free that we understand the rules. This is Lagos and in time past, we’ve had Speakers and we knew how Speakers emerged and we knew how Speakers were removed. For anyone to contemplate removing a Speaker, you would need about 26 members (40-member house) and no one that I know, except if any member can come out and say that he was approached by my humble self or anyone at all to remove the Speaker. I think it’s just the imagination or a case of lack of confidence on the part of the Speaker if at all he had that in mind. I think the devilish act was just the intention of the Speaker. Perhaps it may not be unconnected with what we heard at the beginning of the 9th Assembly before the inauguration. From the 8th Assembly, five of the principal officers returned to the House and the Speaker himself is the current chairman of the Speakers Forum in Nigeria. We understand this well. There was even no contest between any of us since the Speaker returned to the 8th Assembly with five others like myself. At the inception when we were going to put together the issue of the leadership of the House, there was a rumour that the Speaker had the intention of removing two of the returning officers that came from the 8th Assembly to the 9th Assembly. At the time, the rumour was that the Speaker was not comfortable with the Deputy Speaker and the Majority Leader to the extent that when we were to endorse him, he only wanted the endorsement of himself although the leaders of the House said no, we should all return and probably that infuriated the Speaker and maybe it was from then he had it in mind that two of us must go. None of us had an inkling of what happened and what happened indeed was already done and the process is flawed with a lot of regularities. The suspended members and removed principal officers are believed to be close to the senator representing Lagos-East, Bayo Osinowo, who is also your senatorial leader. Do you think the crisis has anything to do with your association with him? In the first instance, the senator you are referring to, Senator Bayo Osinowo, is a former member of the House and he’s indeed our de facto leader in the House of Assembly so we are colleagues as members but we know that he is the leader. I am from Lagos-East senatorial district and the man was the brain behind the emergence of the Speaker in the 8th Assembly. But the APC, being who we are, irrespective of what your desire is, we see ourselves as members of the same political family. In a political family, your interest may not be the position of the family. You have the right to contest anything but once it is agreed that this is where we are going, at that time, it was this same senator that stood and supported the Speaker’s emergence and we were there for four years. He was there as a leader, colleague and even as a guardian to us as members. In the 9th Assembly, having also prevailed on us that the Speaker should return ditto with other members, we did not think there was any problem between him and the Speaker. But from what has emerged in the last few days, it is getting obvious that the Speaker had an ulterior motive against the gentleman leader and brother. There was no need for the Speaker to have created an atmosphere in the House of Assembly whereby he would want to separate himself from the leadership of Senator  Osinowo. As for me, he is our leader. He has been instrumental to our return. As a matter of fact, nine of the 10 members from the district returned to the House so he is a man who has been standing by us. There is no doubt about that. We don’t have a choice but to have his back too and if the Speaker sees that as a problem, that is his headache. Following the recent development, have you been able to speak with the Speaker? We have been denied access to the Assembly and there was no way we could reach him because ever since the purported removal and suspension of members, we have since been removed by the Speaker from the group platform of the 9th Assembly which to me is mostly unnecessary. Again, from the day some members were suspended, he has put our offices under lock and key and denied our staff members access to the Assembly. All these are unconstitutional. I wonder where he derives such powers from. For somebody that we already know, we know he is someone who tries to make a show of power before now and what he has done has revealed his level of intelligence and myopic reasoning and these are some of the things we saw in his leadership style from the outset and we were trying to guide him. The Assembly was not designed to have a sole administrator; those who designed the parliament know that there are other functions other than the function of the Speaker that should be performed by some other people. But since the beginning of the Assembly, he has acted more like a dictator and even a despotic leader; there’s no gainsaying about this. And that is why he has made many blunders in the process of the removal of both senior officers and even the suspended members. What do you think is the position of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in all of these? In fact people are saying the Speaker couldn’t have taken those decisions without his knowledge. It is indeed very strange to us. We have not in any way run foul against the leadership of Asiwaju; he’s our father, he’s our leader and we all accept him. And from the reasons we gathered from him, our offences have not been clearly spelt out. I wonder what our colleague, the Speaker, means by insubordination and misconduct. I wonder what he means because those words are strange to the parliament because you will realise that he is just one among us. We are all colleagues. It is therefore our prerogative but the speaker is the symbol of the parliament. The leadership of the party is trying to look into the matter because we have a party structure in Lagos State. These offices are reserved for various constituencies assumed by the party. Nobody has gone against the party and it is obvious that he did not consult with the party. He did not consult with the governor and our leader does not act in such a way. Our leader is equally loyal to all of us and we’ve not offended him in anyway so I doubt if our great leader is in the know. The clerk of the house said the decisions against you and others were taken because of some critical issues that could divide the house. Does that mean you and others have been divisive? This is again strange to me as a person; I think it would be good if you ask him or ask the Speaker what he meant by that. There’s no division in the party so I wouldn’t really know what he means by actions that could cause division in the House. It’s all a ploy to call a dog a bad name because he wants to hang it. All I can say is that he has ambition to run for Senate in 2023 and 2023 is a long time from now. I don’t belong to Lagos West senatorial district so I wonder what my concern is. I’m not standing in his way for anything. I’m not contesting with him in 2023 as senator so I actually don’t know what he means by that because we know what the parliament means to the party in Lagos State. Many of us, as experienced as we are, will do everything that will stabilise where we all represent so I think it is all in the imagination of Mr Speaker. How’s your constituent in Somolu reacting to the news of your removal as the Assembly’s chief whip? My people are agitated; they are not happy because unfortunately, in the entire Somolu, we do not have a single commissioner or an SA in the cabinet of the governor of Lagos State despite our brilliant contribution to the success of the party in the state. We had the third highest number of votes that brought the government to power. This is the only office that the people of Somolu think they have and again the purported taking of the office is reaching them. But we have asked them to be calm since the party has said they are looking into it. As a matter of fact, the directive that came from the hierarchy of the party was that he should reverse the decision and we are patiently waiting for this to be done, failure of which we might take further action on the matter. This is a career we have tried to build over the years and we will not allow any charlatan to rubbish our career politically. I’m not a new member in the House. I’m on my fourth run and at the appropriate time, we are waiting for the action of the party before we know what next to do. What do you think is the solution to the crisis? The solution is for him to reverse the decision because the process by which we are both removed and suspended is flawed with irregularities. You don’t suspend and remove elected members without fair trials. The House has a procedure backed by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and there have been numerous precedents made by the Supreme Court. I mean suspending a member is depriving his constituents of being represented at the House of Assembly. It is barbaric and unconstitutional. As for our purported removal by members, the members that purportedly signed are currently not in the country so I wonder how they signed. Honourable Jimi Mohammed (Ikeja 1) was not in the country as at March 9. Honourable Desmond Elliot (Surulere 1) was also not in the country as at March 9, so I wonder how they signed and we also saw names of people that had no signatures. When we tried to find out from some of our colleagues, they said they never signed for that purpose and that what the Speaker had was an attendance register of the caucus meeting they held sometime ago. You can ask for the views of some of those who purportedly signed but I can tell you categorically that Mohammed was not in town on March 9 likewise Elliot. Honorable Jude Idimogu’s (Oshodi/Isolo II) signature was not on that paper when they purportedly said he signed. I think the Speaker is just playing games. If the Speaker doesn’t reverse the decision, what do you think will be the likely fallout? We might resort to the judiciary at the end of the day; that is the plain truth. We also represent people and we are all from noble backgrounds. We know the rules and we will not allow our names to be rubbished. That I can assure you. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 