Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has resolved to intervene in the crisis between the gambling firms owned by billionaire businessman and philanthropist, Sir Kensington Adebutu; and the Peoples Democratic Party chieftain, Senator Buruji Kashamu. The House resolved to settle the rift following a motion by a member, Mr Akin Alabi, who equally owns a sports betting company, NairaBet. Alabi’s motion was titled ‘Need to Mediate in the Ongoing Rift between the Operators of Premier Lotto and Western Lotto.’ Adopting the motion, the House mandated the Committee on Governmental Affairs, chaired by Alabi, to interface with relevant stakeholders, including the NLRC; Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Senator George Akume; and other key operators “towards resolving the controversies raging in the industry.” The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had gone after Premier Lotto owned by Adebutu based on a petition by Western Lotto owned by Kashamu, alleging crimes ranging from tax fraud to economic sabotage. At the plenary on Wednesday, Alabi said, “The House is aware that there has been a tug of war between the operators of Premier Lotto and Western Lotto, which is causing a stir in the industry. “The House is also aware that several other sports betting companies are currently being investigated by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, owing to allegations of sharp practices, tax evasion and economic sabotage against the companies.” According to Alabi, a prolonged neglect of disputes like this could only result in industry instability, which would encourage upsurge in illegal activities of unlicensed operators. The lawmaker added, “The House is further concerned that the industry remains at risk of personal and political interests coming to play, if the controversies are not investigated and dealt with; as the law must be dispensed fairly and equally to every operator within the industry.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  