Raphael Ede,  Enugu A herbalist, Simon Odo, popularly called Onu Uwa, has explained the reason behind his decision to marry 58 women, saying most men die untimely due to pressure from bad wives. Odo, who is also known as King of Satan, spoke on Monday in an interview with journalists on why he married his 58th wife recently. He said he could not tolerate insolence and unruly behaviour from the women, adding that he used to marry a new wife anytime he was let down by the attitude of any of his previous wives. The herbalist, who hails from Aji in the Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area of Enugu State, stated, “I marry anytime any of my wives insults me. I cannot stand a woman insulting me. “If there are 20 dead men in Nigeria, for instance, only five of them die naturally. The other 15 deaths are caused by heartbreaks and bad attitudes of their wives. That is why I marry anytime a woman insults me.” On how he provides for his large family, Odo said God did not make mistakes by giving him many children as He provides for all His creatures. He alleged that the actions of humanity had put God in a state of confusion. Odo stated, “If I want to kill you, I will ask God for His grace. The person I want to kill will also ask God for his protection. The armed robbers on the highway pray to God for the success of their operations, while roads users pray to the same God for protection against robbers. God is confused about the actions of humanity, because of their evil actions. READ ALSO: Enugu man declared wanted for alleged defilement “God has abandoned humanity due to the spate of evil they perpetrate. He no longer answers our prayers, because we have no love for Him or our fellow human beings. Children do not obey their parents anymore; this was not the case when I was young. There was absolute respect for elders then. “There are four of us, who people use to defraud unsuspecting members of the public. The first person is God; the second person is Jesus Christ; then the Queen of Oceans and me, the King of Satan. People go about claiming that I am their father and that they can perform all sorts of miraculous healing. “To be frank with you, I did not train anybody in traditional medicine, so those people are fraudsters. “People also go about claiming false prophesies from God, Jesus Christ and the Queen of Oceans; claiming that they heard from God and duping people of their hard-earned treasures. They are fraudsters and people should be wary of them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 