Ife Ogunfuwa The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, has urged the Swedish government to support Nigeria’s quest to deploy more robust broadband infrastructure in the country for economic growth and prosperity. Pantami, who spoke through the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof Umar Danbatta, in Abuja at a dinner hosted by the Swedish Ambassador to Nigeria, Carl-Michael Grans, said Nigeria had embarked on a digital transformation journey. According to him, efforts are ongoing to ensure evacuation of the massive data capacity at landing points to hinterland. “We have a plan to move the massive capacity from landing point to hinterland. To do that effect, we know we have to put in place the necessary infrastructure that will facilitate it. We would therefore like the Swedish Government to buy into this great idea of deploying this massive broadband infrastructure which is fibre-driven,” he said. According to him, the project will see a quantum access of 10 gigabytes per second in each of the 774 local governments of the country. “We appreciate the important intervention that you are giving to this country, especially to this sector of the economy that we are managing on behalf of the Federal Government. “The statistics are there for all to see. The broadband penetration, for instance, is about 40 per cent. But this is 40 per cent of close to 200 million people, which translates to about 80 million Nigerians having access to high speed Internet together with the volume associated with broadband networks,” he explained. The minister, however, noted that as the country’s population was close to 200 million, the government would not rest on its laurels until all had access to high speed Internet as well as the volume associated with the network. On Internet penetration in the country, Pantami observed that figures recently released by the NCC indicated that almost 125 million Nigerians had access, but lamented that close to 31 million Nigerians were still within unserved and underserved areas. He said Nigeria achieved its five-year National Broadband target of 30 per cent in December 2018 and since then, the level of penetration had remained steady. It could be recalled that the broadband penetration was less than six per cent when the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), appointed Danbatta as the chief executive officer of the NCC. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    