Peter Dada and Tunde Oyekola South-West  Governors’ Forum Chairman  Rotimi Akeredolu has said recruitment into  Amotekun Corps may begin  this week. The  Ondo State Governor, who spoke through his Special Adviser on Security Matters, Alhaji Jimoh Dojumo, also said the security outfit initiated by South-West governors to tackle insecurity  in the region,  would  take off  in the next three weeks. He said, “All arrangements have been finalised. The training of the personnel will last for 21  days but there will  be more training and retraining for them. “The  security agencies will  train those recruited. The recruitment and training will go together.” Dojumo, a retired  police officer,  added,  “We are being very careful to avoid flaws. The recruitment may start next week (this week) and immediately after the recruitment training will start. “But our target time is before the end of March you will see them patrolling roads in the South-West.” The Akeredolu’s aide also  said  there would be  no specially  designed uniform for the  corps members. No formal arrangement with South-West govs yet, says Abdulrazaq Meanwhile,  the Kwara State Government has said  it is yet to have a formal arrangement on  Amotekun. The North-Central state  shares boundaries with Oyo, Osun and Ekiti states. Our correspondent learnt  that major stakeholders in the protection of the state had expressed  their readiness to cooperate with the South-West  outfit if the  state government was  ready. Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq  had said  he  would welcome any arrangements to keep the people of the state safe. However, he has   yet to enter into any formal arrangement with  South-West governors on Amotekun. “Security is a dynamic issue that requires collaboration and intelligence sharing among all stakeholders,” the governor  said  through his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, as saying on Saturday. “We are open to collaboration that will strengthen security and peace across borders. “However, we currently do not have any formal arrangement to key into the Amotekun initiative. As a government, we will work with other sub-national and national governments to continue to keep Kwara safe.” The President of Afonja Descendants Union Alhaji Olola Kasum said the people of the state had been  supporting Amotekun because it would  the  people. Kasum said, “Amotekun is a good idea, we welcome it and we will like to work with it. It is for the safety of our people and anything that happens in the South-West will affect us here. It is a good idea and we are fully in support of it. We will cooperate with them.” The Hunters and Vigilante Association in the state expressed their readiness  to  work with  Amotekun if the state government keyed into it. Spokesman for the  association, Alhaji Sulaiman Ayodeji aka Akikanju Ode, said, “The hunters and vigilantes are under the police, we cannot do anything unless the state government embraces  Amotekun. “We have to cooperate with them if we want protection for our people, because Kwara  shares boundaries with Oyo in Asa and Baruten councils, with Osun  in Oyun council  and with Ekiti  in Irepodun, Oke-Ero and Ekiti councils. It will pay us if we cooperate with these states on Amotekun. “We have advised the government but they are yet to give us a reply.” The Olofa of Offa, Oba Gbadamosi Esuwoye 11, said  he would not  comment on Amotekun since the state  was  not part of the South-West. Oba Gbadamosi, who spoke through his Chief of Staff, Prince Tunji Oyawoye, said, “We know where we belong, we are in Kwara  and Kwara is not part of the South-West where Amotekun  was  launched.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  