Nike Popoola CRC Credit Bureau Limited says it introduced its mobile application called ‘CRC Mobile’ in the Nigerian credit bureau industry. A statement said with CRC Mobile, individuals now had access to their credit information and credit scores through their mobile phones. The CRC Mobile app was available for download on the Google and Apple Play stores, it stated. It added that the CRC Mobile application was formally launched at CRC Credit Bureau’s 10th anniversary with an introductory video that showcased its different features and how it could be used to subscribe to the various credit monitoring products /services that CRC had to offer, including its CRC score and CRC self enquiry credit reports. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, CRC Credit Bureau Limited, Mr ‘Tunde Popoola, stated that the launch of the mobile application was part of the innovations that the company had created to enable consumers in Nigeria and diaspora access information that empowered them to take control of their financial reputation and be better informed. Prior to taking a loan, he explained, they could also monitor their exposures for accurate reporting and the reduction of identity fraud. CRC Credit Bureau had 13 products and services that were all available on the mobile application ‘CRC Mobile’, it stated. After download, users of the mobile app were required to register, to be able to access any of the products/services on the application. It added that they must also use the same details used to register for their Bank Verification Numbers while registering their details on the application for authentication, such as mobile phone numbers. CRC Credit Bureau provided a nationwide repository on credit profiles of corporate entities as well as consumers, improving the ability of credit providers and borrowers to make informed lending and borrowing decisions, it added. It stated that the bureau’s database covered the credit industry which included commercial banks, retailers, utility service providers and fintechs. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 