‘Femi Asu The Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board has highlighted the importance of security to the growth of the nation’s oil and gas sector. The Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Mr Simbi Wabote, therefore called for collaboration with the Nigeria Police Force towards improving the operations in the sector. Wabote spoke during a courtesy visit to the Nigeria Police Force Headquarters in Abuja on Wednesday, according to a statement. He said the visit was necessitated by the need to foster collaboration between the Police in safeguarding lives and infrastructure within the NCDMB’s operational areas. “The Police Commissioner in Bayelsa has provided tremendous support in terms of security in the past, and we are here to ask for more security support for staff and critical infrastructure,” He reassured the police of the NCDMB’s support in the areas of security equipment and human capacity building. Wabote said the success recorded by the board since inception in April 2010 included in-country retention of over 30 per cent oil and gas industry annual spend against less than five per cent prior to the enactment of the Nigeria Oil and Gas Industry Content Development Act. In his response, the Inspector -General of Police, Mohammed Adamu expressed appreciation to the NCDMB for the visit and commended the executive secretary for the achievements made so far by the board. He assured the NCDMB of the Nigeria Police’s security support to enable it to maximally perform its core mandate. According to him, the Nigeria Police will do everything possible to synergise and improve the board’s performance in line with its obligation to provide adequate security in the entire country. Adamu urged the NCDMB to effectively collaborate with the police command in Bayelsa State in the area of corporate social responsibility and other stakeholder engagements. The IGP said the police was committed to collaborating with government agencies to help tackle the current insecurity challenges plaguing the nation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  