Edo State Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu spoke with journalists on the state’s preparedness for the forthcoming National Sports Festival, state of facilities and the strength of the state’s athletes ahead of the 20th edition of the festival. ’TANA AIYEJINA was there Beyond the National Sports Festival and the massive reconstruction of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City, what plans do you have for sports in Edo State? We are bringing back the Edo Principal’s Cup, we are also bringing back the Governor’s Cup, inter-house sports competitions in government schools, the Ogbe Hard Court Tennis Championship and gymnastics. We are not going to fund all these competitions as a state, it’s going to be in conjunction with the private sector. We want to take advantage of the natural talents that we have in gymnastics in Edo Central and develop them. And we are also combining the 20 mini-stadia with education, because majority of them are built inside schools so that the curriculum will also blend with sporting activities. So, at the end of the day, a child can decide to take a career in sports in line with their academic works. This makes the academic work to become the secondary job whereas their skills can take them to any level they want and when they are done after 35 years or so, they will still have a certificate to fall back on. We are trying to combine both education and sports in the state. So, at the end of the day the facility will be running because the governor (Godwin Obaseki) approved Edo State Sports Festival as an annual event now and local governments will also key into the sporting revolution that we have started. That means every local government area will have its own team, depending on the area where they have skills. For instance, it will be difficult to beat Esan South-East in gymnastics, it will be difficult to beat Ikpoba Okha in swimming and it will be difficult to beat people from Edo North in long distance races. Every zone at the end of the day would master their areas of potential. The key thing is that we are going to be having these games in schools and outside schools. Elsewhere, it is not government that runs sports, government just provides the facilities and enabling environment, which we’ve done. When we say government has no business in sports but to provide facilities, infrastructure and enabling environment, it is true and that is what we have done in Edo State as far as sports is concern. For me, sports is an industry, but I like to borrow my governor’s ideology: sports is another economy. And when you look at it truly, you are going to deal with a lot of issues. You are going to deal with insecurity because these young men and women will be engaged in the afternoon and they will be too tired to be a devil’s workshop. Also, those vendors that would sell jerseys, food vendors and engage in other different businesses would open up and once those businesses kick-start in the local government areas, the state’s GDP will improve and it will reduce unemployment and insecurity. It will also increase wealth. For us, it’s a whole economy on the rise and that is why we will not depend on government to manage these facilities. There’s been a turnaround of infrastructure in the state ahead of the National Sports Festival. Are you also extending such strides and energy towards the athletes in preparation for the Edo 2020 festival? Yes, we’ve since started. Since we got the approval to host this sports festival, our athletes have been going for national games in different categories and we have sponsored them. Why we’ve done that is to prepare them for this festival, to expose them, so that they can compete with the majority of the athletes that they are going to be competing with and we have done that beautifully well. During the Edo State festival, we had to adjust our calendar to make the athletics events come first because the athletes were to go to another meet in Akure, Ondo State (All Comers Athletics competition), so, we had to sponsor them to Akure midway through the Edo festival. That’s why we had to fast-track their own events to be first, so that they would deal with it and have space to go to Akure to compete with most of the athletes that are going to Tokyo for the 2020 Olympic Games as well as those that would be coming here (Benin City). So, we’ve given them the necessary exposure and they are all moving to camp to have what we call team spirit. We are also conscious of not keeping them for too long in camp because as a sportsman myself, I know that if you overstay in camp you will hit form and eventually lose form. We’ve interacted with our psychologists, coaches, directors and the players and we discovered that what is best for them is to go to camp, have team spirit and come out when they are hitting their peak form. Are you hosting to win? Of course, yes. We are hosting to win and win clean. Besides the sporting facilities, what structure do you have on the ground to  accommodate athletes and officials during the festival? For accommodation, we are looking at about 11,500 athletes and officials and what we have done is to go into partnership with the University of Benin and the Federal Government Girls College, Benin. And we’ve got accommodation in these places. We are helping the University of Benin, Ugbowo and Ekewan campuses to renovate all their hostels, we are also doing the same in the Federal Government Girls College, we are furnishing them with beddings to accommodate these athletes. And don’t forget that at the University of Benin, beyond the accommodation, we are also going to help them to fix some of their sporting facilities. It is a whole partnership with them and we are going to have about 17 centres where the sports events will take place. Like we have always said, we want to redefine how these Games are being hosted, so that at the end of the day, Edo will be a reference point. For us, Edo is the home of sports. During the Games, people will come from all over Nigeria; do you have a specific plan to manage the traffic? We have one of the best traffic management teams in Nigeria in Edo State as we speak and don’t forget that Benin City has the best road network in Nigeria. And what we have simply done, in line with our infrastructural revolution, is to tar a lot of these roads and we have also mapped out all the areas of interest, for instance, areas of accommodation, event areas, among others. All these areas have been mapped out and we have a competition guide that will guide all athletes and visitors that would be coming. And I can tell you that Edo has a good record in terms of running transportation business. If there is any government that runs transportation very well, it is Edo State. The Chairman of the Transport Committee is the head of Edo City Transport Service. The traffic management team and the security are all working as a team to deal with the issues of movement, security and accommodation and all other logistics. We are actually ready and we have also done something different with the renovation of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium. We will be hosting lots of international games there. What security measures has the state government put in place to ensure that athletes and officials are safe during the festival? We have the police, military, State Security Service and we have our own security personnel. We have 1,225 officers that will combine with the security agencies to deal with the issues of security at the accommodation zone, street zone and the event areas. We recently purchased some vehicles for Wabazighan security outfit to be stationed at strategic areas across the state. We are not only dealing with security for our visitors, we are also aware that our Edo indigenes might be inconvenienced during this period, so we have also mapped out strategies to deal with the issue of their inconvenienc, because we will be telling them which road to use and which one not to use, which means we have to provide security on those alternative routes that we provided for them. As a footballer who’s played in the league, will you be representing the state in the football event? I don’t know yet because I have not been invited to camp. But I know we came second in the last Edo State festival where we were beaten in the final 2-0 and I know obviously that the coach is going to select players across the last four teams. When I am picked, obviously I will be ready to play. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 