What shaped the past week? Global: Markets fell sharply this week, as the rapid spread of the COVID-19 virus continues to weigh on business activities around the globe. U.S markets fell in excess of 16% this week, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunging 10%, its highest drop since 1987. Fears of the economic impact of the outbreak wiped out $11.5 trillion in value from U.S. markets last week, as investors remain jittery over the contraction in global demand. On Wednesday, the Italian government announced new restrictions on movements in country, closing all nonessential shops and services. The country has 12,462 cases with 827 deaths, making it the worst-hit nation outside China. The lockdown imposed by the government bans public gatherings and restricts travel to only urgent work situations, emergencies and health reasons. As part of its efforts to cushion its economy from the outbreak, the Italian government announced a $28.3 billion stimulus package, this after the finance minister highlighted that there will be a negative impact to GDP due to the outbreak. Finally, at the close of trade on Wednesday, US President Donald Trump announced that the US would temporarily suspend most travel from the EU, and that the restrictions which began on Friday, will last for 30 days. However, these restrictions would not apply to US citizens or travelers from the UK. At the close of trading on Friday, the FTSE-100, plunged 15.12% w/w, while the German DAX fell 16.92% w/w. In Asia the Nikkei fell 18.28%, with the Shanghai Composite contracting 6.00% w/w. Domestic Economy: The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Thursday, to dispel rumors about a naira devaluation stated that the market fundamentals do not support a devaluation of the naira at this time. Following a crash in oil prices to $33.22/bbl, the exchange rate in the parallel market soared above N400 to the dollar, as the fall in oil prices increased local demand for the USD. In its press release to the public the apex bank stated that despite the slowdown in global economic activity due to the COVID-19 outbreak, public health concerns have led to a contraction in production activities in China, travel restrictions and a substantial drop in imports, which have eased the pressure on demand for foreign exchange. In addition, the bank believes that with the size of the nation’s foreign reserves ($36.17 billion), the demand for FX in the country can be met. However, in the latter stages of 2019, the head of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele had stated that the regulator would only devalue the naira should the nation’s external reverses drop below $30 billion and Brent crude prices fall below $45/bbl. Nigeria remains vulnerable to prolonged periods of low oil prices, and the ability of the nation to ramp up production is limited by operational, regulatory and infrastructure challenges. As the nation still generates a bulk of its FX revenues from oil exports, the value of the naira remains intrinsically tied to global oil prices. As such the CBN will be pressured in its efforts to prop-up the naira as foreign reserves trend lower. A devaluation of the naira would result in increased importation costs for raw materials as well as other commodities that must be paid for using FX. Raw material inputs for manufacturers will become more expensive, with the average consumer bearing the brunt of the cost of the devaluation by weakening of their purchasing. Equities: The NSEASI fell sharply this week, as the index fell 13.49% w/w. After hitting a year high of 29710pts in January, the index has contracted 21% since then as the COVID-19 outbreak continues to roil global equities. The performance of the index last week, was dragged down by losses recorded across board, notably in the Banking Sector (-26.15% w/w), as the sector has been hard hit by the fall in oil prices amid a weak macroeconomic environment. In addition, the Consumer Goods (-14.79%) sector fell sharply as well, driven by losses recorded in NESTLE (-10.00% w/w). Meanwhile, losses recorded in heavyweights DANGCEM (-10.00%) and MTNN (-10.00%) further dampened the performance of the index, bringing its YTD performance to -15.30%. Finally, the industrial goods (-541bps) and Oil and Gas (-851bps) sectors also closed lower last week. For the week, volume and value traded improved by 119% and 68% respectively. Fixed Income: With global oil prices trending downwards, the bears commanded trading activity in the fixed income space this week. On Wednesday, the CBN conducted a Primary Market Auction, where they offered and sold N86 billion across the 3 maturity levels at stop rates of 2.49%, 3.78% and 5.30%, (Effective yields: 2.51%, 3.85%, 5.59%). Meanwhile, in the OMO space sell-pressure observed across the spectrum, saw the average yield on OMO notes advance 358bps w/w. Furthermore, with bond investors unnerved about the nation’s ability to generate fiscal revenues amid lower oil prices, the average yield on benchmark bonds advanced 126bps w/w as market participants sold-off tenors primarily at the short-end of the space. Notably, the yields on the 16.39% FGN-JAN-2022 and 14.50% FGN-JUL-2021 bonds advanced 111bps and 213bps to settle at 12.03% and 9.27% respectively; Brent crude which is the global oil benchmark fell 7.2% to $33.22/bbl, highlighting investors’ concerns about lower demand for jet fuel and other types of energy. Finally, in the NTB space, activity was limited this week, as the average yield on NTBs closed flat for the week. Currency: The Naira depreciated by N2.22 w/w at the I&E FX Window to settle at N368.47 and remained unchanged w/w to close at N365.00 against the dollar in the parallel market. What will shape markets in the coming week? Equity market: The domestic bourse was significantly battered during the week as a result of overhanging uncertainties in the global and macro-economic environment, leading to most fundamentally sound stocks trading at multi-year lows. However, with most counters trading at deep discounts to their expected fair value in the face of massive sell pressure during the week, we expect several stocks to enjoy positive investor patronage at the start of the coming week. Fixed Income market: Barring any positive outcome from talks between major oil producers (Russia and Saudi Arabia), we expect the market to trade in a bearish manner at the start of next week. Currency: We expect the naira to remain largely stable across the various windows of the currency space as the CBN maintains interventions in the FX market. Focus for the week DANGOTE CEMENT PLC – Still a BUY despite competitive pressures     After one of the most competitive years in the history of the Nigerian cement sector, we look at market leader, DANGCEM’s FY’19 result as well as its restructuring and expansion plans. While the operating landscape in Nigeria remains challenging due to heightened competition, we see sustained value in the stock as it continues its Pan-African expansion push. We also see value in the tax advantage of the company’s debt strategy as a semi-replacement for the expiring pioneer tax status in 2020. We value DANGCEM at N199.06 and maintain a BUY rating on the stock. Sea-based exports, Public sector spend should support Nigeria volumes in FY’20 While the broader cement industry continued to face pressures from heightened competition, slow capex disbursement and torrential rainfalls (Cement GDP only expanded by 3% y/y), sales of Dangote cement in Nigeria remained resilient, rising 2% y/y in the domestic market to 13.7 million MT. We note that after a challenging H1’19, the launch of the bag of goodies promo in H2 helped push sales upwards. However, overall sales of the Nigerian business came in flat y/y at 14.1 million MT, following a slowdown in exports after land borders were closed. All in, Nigeria Revenue fell by 1% y/y to N610.2 billion, following a 1% y/y drop in average revenue/tonne to N43,221.69. While average pricing was down at the start of the year, price increases totaling c.N200/bag in April (N150/bag) and October (c.N50/bag) helped temper the slowdown in pricing. Given the success of the bag of goodies promo in 2019, we expect the company to sustain a similar initiative in 2020. We also see volume support for the Nigerian business as the export jetties are expected to be up and running in H1’20, opening up sea-based export opportunities to West African countries. Based on this and an expected improvement in public infrastructure spend in 2020, we foresee a 4% y/y growth in cement volumes in Nigeria to 14.7 million MT. Furthermore, with competition in the sector showing no sign of letting up, we see no relief for prices and expect average revenue/tonne to moderate a further 2% y/y to N42,357.3. Overall, we expect Nigeria Revenue to rise 2% higher y/y to N623.3 billion. Key risks to this forecast however lie in weak revenue generation and capex financing abilities of the Federal Government of Nigeria due to a sustained (bear case) dip in crude prices. Expect mild growth in PAT as competitive pressures remain Driven by improvements across both the Nigerian and Pan African businesses, we forecast a 7% y/y growth in Group volumes to 25.1 million MT in FY’20, translating to a 5% y/y growth in Group Revenue to N933.6 billion. With competition unlikely to let up in Nigeria and pricing challenges expected to remain in South Africa and Zambia, we expect further pressure on EBITDA margin, taking FY’20 margin 30bps lower to 44.3%. However, given the larger topline, FY’20 EBITDA is expected to grow 5% y/y to N416.6 billion. With DANGCEM signaling an intent to increase debt levels, we expect Net finance cost to remain flat around N51.2 billion, taking PBT 6% higher to N264.9 billion and PAT 3% higher to N206.6 billion. We estimate a 12-month TP of N199.06 and maintain a BUY rating on the stock Whilst reasonable care has been taken in preparing this document to ensure the accuracy of facts stated herein and that the ratings, forecasts, estimates and opinions also contained herein are objective, reasonable and fair, no responsibility or liability is accepted either by Vetiva Capital Management Limited or any of its employees for any error of fact or opinion expressed herein. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    