Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja The President of the Commonwealth Medical Association, Dr Osahon Enabulele, has urged the Federal Government to step up efforts to stop the spread of coronavirus cases in Nigeria. Enabulele gave the advice after visiting coronavirus isolation centres at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada, and the National Hospital, Abuja. While commending the efforts of the health workers and management of the two hospitals for their proactive efforts despite structural and resource inadequacies, the CMA boss noted that there were gaps to be filled to get the state of preparedness to desired levels. He said, “How many people are involved in contact tracing? How many beds are at the isolation centres? How many ventilators are available in isolation centres and public health facilities? “I have been to other isolation centres in Nigeria and I must say that a lot needs to be done to provide the required resources, including equipping the centres with the adequate number of personnel, beds, ventilators and other requirements. “We have to spread the capacity around the country and motivate the health workers in the frontline.” While acknowledging efforts so far made by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, the Federal Government, including the release of over N1bn to combat coronavirus, Enabulele described some of the FG’s steps, including the closure of all international wings of the nation’s airports, as belated. He added, “It is in order to close the international airports, with efforts geared towards stricter measures to achieve social distancing which is vital to containing the spread of the virus. It is part of the containment methods for addressing this challenge, especially with our weak health system.” Enabulele warned that there could be more cases of individuals infected with the virus in Nigeria if appropriate measures were not taken, stating that the global trends has clearly shown that more cases sprang up two to three weeks after the first recorded cases. He also urged the Federal Government to empower local health facilities at the primary health care level to enable them to handle suspected cases of Covid-19, instead of relying on one or two designated places. While questioning the government’s state of preparedness, the CMA boss said there was an urgent need to devolve some of the responsibilities of the NCDC to other specific bodies, saying it appeared NCDC was already over-burdened. He said, “NCDC needs to be unbundled in terms of getting it to be more prompt and responsive to the practical needs in the field, including effective contact tracing, easy access to diagnostic facilities beyond the few currently on the ground. “There is an urgent need to improve diagnostic capacities. The Federal Government should empower federal teaching hospitals to have the diagnostic capacity, as the existing five reference diagnostic centres in Nigeria is not enough for the over 200 million Nigerians.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  