Afeez Hanafi The Edo State Government says it has shut Famous Faithland Orphanage for allegedly selling a baby girl for over N1.7m. The government has also withdrawn the operational licence of the facility. The state’s Commissioner for Social Development and Gender Issues, Mrs Maria Edeko, who led other officials of the ministry and security agencies, served the letter of notice to the orphanage located at 9, Osarenren Street, beside Deeper Life Bible Church, in Ohovbe Quarter, Ikpoba-Hill, Benin City. The Edo State Taskforce Against Human Trafficking had on Wednesday rescued Baby Deborah,  a victim of human trafficking and illegal adoption, who was sold by a woman, Maureen Ekuase, 45, to one Grace Idehen, 63. Addressing journalists on Friday, the commissioner said the state government frowned at all forms of human trafficking and abuse, adding that children were gifts from God and should never be traded as commodities. She stated that the major challenge faced by the ministry bordered on adoption, the allegation of sales and child trafficking. She said, “Famous Faithland Home has been implicated in alleged sales of children. Since the report came, we started investigating the matter and today (Friday), Edo State Government has withdrawn the temporary licence granted to the orphanage. The orphanage has not operated within the confines of the law. The 17 children in the home are being relocated to a safe place. “The governor is passionate about vulnerable persons especially children. The state government is also working within the mandate and vision of the governor to train managers of orphanage homes in the state in how to operate the centres.” Edeko said the state government would continue to monitor the operations of orphanages, noting that those found wanting would be shut. “No child under the watch of Governor Godwin Obaseki will be trafficked, abused or sold. Anyone that wants to do otherwise should be ready to face the law. Orphanages should not be seen as a place to make money,” she added.