’Tosin Oluwalowo Enyimba were held 1-1 at home by Guinean Club Horoya in the quarter-final of the CAF Confedrations Cup in Aba on Sunday. The Aba-based side went ahead in the 18th minute through Augustine Oladapo, who fired in a left foot shot for his third goal of the competition. The home side tried increasing the tally but their efforts were repelled by the visiting side, who were determined to take a good result home. Both sides went to the half time break with Enyimba maintaining their slim lead. With 20 minutes to go, Boniface Haba who had been brought in as a second half substitute, headed the ball into the bottom left after a cross from Boubacar Samassekou on the right to equalise for Horoya. Enyimba had a chance to steal victory late into the game but Victor Mbaoma’s effort was cleared away. The game ended 1-1, with Enyimba now needing to win or at least secure a score draw in the return leg to qualify for the semi-final. The second leg will be played in Conakry on Sunday. Speaking after the game, Enyimba coach, Fatai Osho said the team would take their chances in the return leg to secure qualification. He blamed the result on injuries sustained by his players. “We have about 14 players nursing injuries and following the limited number of players required to be registered for this series of matches, the fitness level of my men was affected. We did not want to push them too much because we know that there would be a breaking point,” Osho said. “Austin Oladapo, for example, did very well. But he is just coming back after missing about four or five matches. We have to put that into consideration so that we don’t hurt the boy. The future is more important to us and it goes beyond today’s result. “The strength in the middle was not there, because we had a lot of new players coming in. He however gave Horoya credits for forcing a draw in Aba. “They did very well to get this result and they did better than us. But, fortunately, this is a two-legged affair. We are still going to Guinea and we are still going to make use of our chances,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 