John Charles The Benue  State Government says it  has  arrested 400  herdsmen for flouting the state’s  anti-open grazing law. The state government also  seized    over 600 cows  belonging to the herdsmen. Governor Samuel Ortom, who revealed these in Makurdi on Friday,  ordered  the  livestock guards to impound any cows  seen openly grazing in any part of the state. Ortom gave the instructions   while inspecting impounded  cows at the quarantine unit of the state Ministry of Agriculture. He said enforcement of the ranching law would continue to enable those who wish to do livestock business  to comply with its provisions. He said, “There has been influx of armed herdsmen with large herds of animals to the state, despite the high level of awareness creation to the existence of the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law. “Several herds of cattle have been impounded and quarantined in other local government areas and the state government has  acquired trucks  to help livestock guards to convey impounded livestock from long distances to quarantine units for safekeeping.” While describing the influx of herdsmen to the state  as “life-threatening”,  the  governor said  such would not be condoned by his administration. Ortom  said, ‘‘As of today over 400 herdsmen found to have flouted  the anti-open grazing law have been arrested and facing prosecution, some have been convicted.” According to Ortom, ranching remains the global best practices of animals husbandry, urging Nigerians to key into it to ensure peace between herdsmen and farmers. The Commander, Livestock Guards,  Linus Zaki, said they impounded  214 cattle in Ukum, 69 in Logo, 219 in Guma, 96 in Makurdi and 16 in Gwer West councils. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    