Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Employees of the NNPC Medicals Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, have kicked against the appointment of a pharmacist as managing director of the organisation. Most of the aggrieved workers, who are medical doctors at the facility, claimed that the NNPC subsidiary had been headed by a medical doctor, adding it would be out of place to appoint a pharmacist to manage the firm. On Friday, The PUNCH exclusively reported that the NNPC retired about 40 group general managers and general managers at its headquarters and subsidiaries, as the affected persons were asked to leave the oil firm last week Wednesday. It was gathered in Abuja on Monday that the immediate past managing director of the NNPC Medicals was among the 40 senior officials of the corporation retired last week. In replacing the former managing director, the NNPC appointed a pharmacist to head its medical subsidiary, a development that did not go down well with doctors at the NNPC Medicals. The NNPC Medicals is also headquartered in Abuja like its parent company and has branches in Port Harcourt, Benin, Kaduna, Kano, Warri, Lagos and Mosimi. “But for job security issues, we would have written a petition to the Nigerian Medical Association about this matter because it is going to affect our input in terms of treating patients,” an employee, who spoke on condition of anonymity in order not to be victimised, stated. Another worker said, “We’ve had doctors as heads of the NNPC Medicals and it has tremendously helped in the growth of the subsidiary. But this recent change is viewed as abnormal and is making many doctors depressed. The NMA will confirm to you that it is best to have a medical doctor head an organisation like this.” Meanwhile, the President, Nigerian Medical Association, Dr Francis Faduyile, and the President, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Sam Ohuabunwa, gave diverse views on the subject when contacted by our correspondent. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  