Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Some yet-to-be identified persons, on Wednesday, vandalised an Automated Teller Machine belonging to Guaranty Trust Bank on the main campus of the Osun State University in Osogbo. The incident was said to have occurred in the early hours of the day and affected only the GTB machine even though another bank had its ATM gallery near the vandalised one. It could not be immediately confirmed if the attackers succeeded in stealing money from the machine, but our correspondent, who visited the scene, observed that the hoodlums broke the wall, where the ATM was mounted. The university’s Public Relations Officer, Ademola Adesoji, explained in a statement that the management had visited the scene of the incident. He added that police detectives had also visited the scene and called for calm, while the management and the security agents investigate the incident. The statement read, “We received a report of the breaking into one of the ATMs on the main campus of the university earlier today (Wednesday) by unknown persons. “We have visited the ATM gallery and hereby confirm the incident. We have since reported the case to the nearest police station. The security agencies have already commenced investigation. “We hereby implore everyone to be calm and continue with their normal activities. The management of the university is committed and will continue to be committed to the safety of the lives and properties of its stakeholders on all our campuses.” The Osun State Commissioner of Police, Johnson Kokumo, said he had ordered an investigation into the incident. He assured the students and staff of UniOsun of their safety, adding that the command would ensure that the perpetrators were brought to justice. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com