Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe An automobile repairer, Sanni Ogunmuyiwa, has dragged a branch manager of the Stanbic IBTC, Tomi Offor, before the Igbosere Magistrates’ Court for allegedly giving false information about him. Ogunmuyiwa had accused Offor, the manager of the bank’s branch on Awolowo Way, Ikoyi, Lagos, of giving the police false information, which led to his arrest and detention. According to Ogunmuyiwa in his statement of claim before the court, Offor sometime in January 2019 engaged his service to repair her car but allegedly refused to pay for his services. Ogunmuyiwa stated that in his attempt to collect his money, he was arrested on the bank premises on the instructions of the manager, who accused him of kidnapping and threat to life. The technician, through his lawyer, Gideon Okebu, dragged the manager, Stanbic IBTC Bank; a police officer, Festus Winko, and one other to court in suit No. MCL/345/2020. In his statement of claim, Ogunmuyiwa prayed the court to order that the refusal of Offor to pay him for the services rendered despite several demands constituted a breach of contract. He also prayed the court to hold Offor, the bank and Winko jointly and severally liable for false imprisonment to wit; making a spurious and false complaint to the Nigeria Police Force, which culminated in his restrain on the bank’s premises for hours before being further detained at the NPF headquarters annex, Kam-Salem House, Obalende. Ogunmuyiwa also urged the court to order the defendants to pay him the sum of N2.5m for his false imprisonment upon a fabricated complaint and also to publish formal letters of apology in two national newspapers and an order directing the defendants to pay the cost of the suit. The case has been fixed for March 24, 2020, for hearing. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com