Adelani Adepegba and Peter Dada The Inspector-General of Police, Mr Muhammed Adamu, has set up a fact-finding committee to unravel the cause  of the explosion in Ondo State last Saturday. The explosion, which occurred  on the Akure-Owo Expressway, at Ilu-Abo, in the Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State, destroyed no fewer than 70 houses, a church and a school while several people were also injured. The Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charged of Operation, Mr Abdulmajid Ali, while briefing the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, on the efforts of the police on the matter, disclosed that a committee had been set up by the IGP on the incident The DIG visited the governor shortly after visiting the scene of  incident, on Monday, in company with the Director-General of Geological Survey Agency, Nigeria, Dr Kaka Imam. The police boss said the committee that was set up comprised police officers from the Police Bomb Disposal Squad (Explosive Ordinance Disposal Unit). The DIG said, “We have visited the scene of the unfortunate incident with the  officials of the geological survey agency and we have taken the sample of the soils, and I am sure that the committee would come out with acceptable report.” He stated further that the police were not relenting on the issue and that they were working to unravel the mystery behind the blast. The DIG cautioned residents not to tamper with the scene of the incident and the ongoing investigations. He also sympathised with the government and people of Ondo State particularly victims who sustained injuries or lost their property to the explosion. In his remarks, Akeredolu commended the Nigeria Police for the steps taken so far on the matter. Akeredolu said, while he was not against other views of expert who claimed that the incident was caused by an asteriod, he was still relying on the initial information from the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Undie Adie. He said. “I am not saying the professor ( from the Obafemi Awolowo University) was right or wrong and I am not making any conclusion. I have been speaking with some experts and they said if we were unable to found debris of the shattered truck within one kilometer radius from the spot of the incident, that shows the incident was not caused by explosive devices. “Already, the debris of the truck that was carrying this explosive devices that created a very large crater on the express road, have been seen. This is not new, there are similar incidents with pictorial evidences. “I am also relying on eyewitnesses’ accounts, particularly, the driver, who drove the vehicle and who is currently recuperating at our State Teaching Hospital, Akure. “I am very sure that if it was asteroid, the NASRDA would have picked this when coming to earth. This is not what we can hide. I am already in touch with the Minister for Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu.” The governor urged the people to wait for the results of tests being carried out on the site of the blast. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  