John Charles Makurdi As part of measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus in Benue State, the state chapter of Christian Association of Nigeria on Thursday suspended Sunday worship and weddings. In his address to Christians in the state, the state CAN chairman,  Rev Akpen Leva, said burials should only be attended by close family of the deceased. According to the Christian leader, the association has rolled out some measures to curtail the spread of the disease to the state which he said would commence from the beginning of April. He said, “Considering the importance of the week-long fast and prayer organised by CAN in conjunction with the state government, we wish to say that with effect from April 1, 2020, we recommend the suspension of Sunday services and mass for the next two weeks to monitor the situation. “Christians are encouraged to continue with home devotions. Crusades, conventions, revivals, vigils, refresher courses, para church camps are hereby suspended until further directives. We can go ahead with online preaching among other avenues. “We urge the clergies to suspend the sign of peace which normally involves shaking of hands and hugging in some churches and even outside the church. Social distance of one metre or three feet is therefore recommended. “Administration of Holy Communion should be on the palms and carefully done as to avoid touching the recipients. “Pastoral care and hospital visits should be administered with utmost precautions. Use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers and hand washing with soap are recommended.” CAN urged people to strictly observe the health rules as prescribed by the Centre for Disease Control and World Health Organisation. It said, “Endeavour to cover your mouth and nose with handkerchiefs or bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze, and dispose the tissue immediately. In case you have fever, cough or difficulty in breathing, seek medical advice immediately. “We urge you to please isolate yourself at home within this period. Avoid going out unless when necessary. Prevention is hundred times better than cure! The Christian body appealed  to the standing committee on COVID-19 and the state government to cooperate with the church by providing the needful so that  the spread of COVID-19 could be effectively controlled  in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  