Peter Dada, Abiodun Nejo, Bola Bamigbola, Tunde Oyekola, Daud Olatunji and Wale Oyewale Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu,  on Wednesday signed the state Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps Bill into law. This came barely 24 hours after the House of Assembly passed the bill. Amotekun  was initiated by the six South-West  governors to tackle the security challenges facing the region. Lagos, Oyo, Ogun and Osun Houses of Assembly also sign their states’ versions of the bill on the same day (Tuesday). The Ekiti State House of Assembly  had earlier passed the bill, and  Speaker Funminiyi Afuye expressed  confidence  on Wednesday Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Gboyega  Oyetola (Osun), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) and Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) would   follow in Akeredolu’s  footsteps by signing the bill into law soon. The Oyo State Government said the others would agree on a date to  sign  the bill, according to the Chief Press Secretary to the state  Governor, Taiwo Adisa. At the signing ceremony   at the Executive Council Chambers of the Governor’s Office, Akure, Akeredolu said the security outfit would not be politicised or used for political purposes. He said , “We wish to reiterate that the Amotekun Corps is a child of necessity and was purely born out of the need to explore other means of securing our forests and protecting all those who do legitimate business within the South-West.” The governor  commended the  House of Assembly for its handling of the bill, saying, their speed and thoroughness underscored the importance attached to it. Other govs will sign –Ekiti  Speaker Afuye praised South-West residents for supporting the creation of  Amotekun. He said, “All the states have now passed  the bill  and waiting for the approval of the governors. I can assure you that before long the bill will be signed into law. It is not going to be delayed.” Meanwhile, the  Yoruba Youth Socio-cultural Association Worldwide has protested the inclusion of non-natives  in Amotekun. In  a statement, the National President of the group, Olalekan Hammed,  said  the  decision would undermine the outfit’s  objectives. He said,  “It is counterproductive to include non-Yoruba to be part of Amotekun no matter how long they have been residing in Lagos or how fluently they can speak the (Yoruba) language.” ‘We are yet to receive Amotekun bill’ The Special Adviser  to Governor Abiodun on Communications, Remmy Hazzan, on Wednesday said the government had yet to receive the Amoteukun bill. In an interview with one of our correspondents, he added, “But I can assure you that if it gets to the executive this minute as we speak, the ceremony for the signing will immediately be called and that means we are just interested in hitting the ground running”. Forum hails Amotekun Meanwhile, the  Yoruba Unity Forum on Wednesday hailed  the  creation of Amotekun. Speaking during a courtesy call on Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola, the Chairman of the group, Rt. Rev. Ayo Ladigbolu, said the manner the governors handled the issue of Amotekun was an indication that the era when the region would mobilise resources to take care of the people was not far off. Ladigbolu also commended Oyetola for successes recorded by his administration. Afenifere wants Kwara The pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere, has called on Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State to key into the Amotekun security project being canvassed in all the Yoruba states of the country. The group made the call after a meeting of its Kwara State chapter held in Ilorin. In a statement signed by the Chairman and PRO of the Kwara State chapter of the pan organisation, Lekan Alabi and Adeleye Adebayo, respectively, on Wednesday, the group said, “Apart from the cultural and linguistic affinity of Kwara State with the South-West states, the ravaging herdsmen have caged many of our communities. “In the light of the above, we call on Govemor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq to key into the Amotekun security project. This will prevent unnecessary loss of lives and anguish that herdsmen/community clashes could bring.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  