Leke Baiyewu and Success Nwogu The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Buruji Kashamu and the party have condoled Senator Ben Murray-Bruce over the death of his wife, Evelyn. Murray-Bruce had on his social media accounts on Friday, announced the loss of his wife who passed on after battling with cancer. Lawan, according to a statement by his media office, commiserated with the entire family of the Senator who represented Bayelsa East Senatorial District in the Eigth Senate and the people of Bayelsa State over the tragic loss. While describing the death as sad, the Speaker, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, urged Murray-Bruce to be strong. Gbajabiamila said, “I wish to convey my sincere condolences to you over the sad and shocking news of the demise of your wife, Mrs Evelyn Murray-Bruce. In his condolence message, Kashamu, who was a colleague of Murray-Bruce in the 8th National Assembly, said he received the news “with a troubled heart.” In a similar vein, the Peoples Democratic Party also commiserated with the founder of Silverbird Group, Ben Murray-Bruce, over the death of his wife. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement, described Evelyn’s as heartrending and devastating. He said, “Indeed, Evelyn’s death is a huge blow and irreparable loss not only to the Bruce family, but also to the PDP, the people of Bayelsa State and the nation at large, given her roles and sacrifices towards the development of humanity. “Despite her challenges and eventual death, Evelyn radiated life, love, happiness and piety. She was a dutiful wife, dedicated mother; a good soul and epitome of humility, honesty, hard work and exceptional philanthropy and hospitality.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   