Our Reporters The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday, praised wealthy individuals and private organisations in the county who offered financial support in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. “The President commends members of the Nigerian Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19, made of people like Aliko Dangote, Abdulsamad Rabiu of BUA Group, Femi Otedola, Tony Elumelu, Herbert Wigwe, Segun Agbaje and Jim Ovia of United Bank for Africa, Access Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank and Zenith Banks, respectively, for contributing N1bn each, and for being in the vanguard of encouraging others in the private sector to do same,” a statement by Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, read. The statement also said Buhari appreciated the donation of N5bn by UBA to Nigeria and Africa, as well as N50m pledged by former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar. For First Bank, the Presidency said it was “partnering with the government, United Nations and innovative technology firms to provide e-learning solutions to at least one million children under its ‘Keep Them Engaged, Keep Them Safe’ initiative.” The statement added that Buhari extolled every other helping hand that had been lent by individuals, groups and organisations, which might not necessarily be in the public domain. The President said God would bless and reward the donors abundantly. Similarly, the Peoples Democratic Party on Friday commended the organised private sector for their response in cash donations and others amid efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement also commended the country’s health workers for their efforts in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. “It would be recalled that following the lethargic approach of the Buhari Presidency, the PDP had taken up the onus of calling on corporate bodies, research and medical institutions as well as public-spirited individuals to immediately come to the rescue,” Ologbondiyan said, urging the government to make judicious use of the donations. As of Friday, Nigeria had recorded 65 COVID-19 cases, which included 14 new cases confirmed on Thursday evening. Twelve of the new cases were in Lagos, while two were in the Federal Capital Territory. The latest confirmation took the total number in Lagos to 44; FCT, 12; Ogun, 3; Ekiti, 1; Oyo, 1; Edo, 1; Bauchi, 1; Osun, 1; and Rivers, 1. The total number of discharged cases were 3 and one death, according to the National Centre for Disease Control. Meanwhile, a company, Golden Royal, has donated a 600-bed facility to the African Development Institute of Research Methodology in Enugu, Enugu State for use in treating coronavirus patients. The Director of the Institute, Prof Ike Oluka, who disclosed this during the final round of training organised by the institute for 150 health personnel and other volunteers, explained that the fully air-conditioned facility would give comfort to patients, adding that the government alone could not fight the scourge of COVID-19. “The 600-bed facility will really help in the treatment and mitigation of COVID-19 cases. Part of what we are also doing is going around different communities and sensitising the people to how best to stay safe at this critical time. “We have also drawn together doctors and nurses from private hospitals across the state who would also help us in talking to people during this period,” he said. By John Ameh, Adelani Adepegba and Success Nwogu Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 