Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa Some armed herdsmen, on Tuesday, attacked a policeman at his duty post around the flyover area of Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. It was gathered that the cop, whose name was given as Charles Biweribo, a sergeant, was allegedly stabbed in his right leg by one of the herdsmen. The herdsmen were said to have entered the premises of the Yenagoa Tower Hotel under construction near the flyover with their cows. Upon noticing the movement, Biweribo and some police personnel, who were on duty with him, moved close and asked the herdsmen to vacate the premises with their animals. It was learnt that the herdsmen refused to obey the directive and an argument ensued between them and the cops. However, one of the herdsmen was said to have pounced on Biweribo and allegedly stabbed him in his right leg and also attempted to collect his rifle. The victim was said to have been saved by his colleagues, who eventually arrested two of the herdsmen. The state police command confirmed the incident, but said that it happened on the premises of a leading construction company at the uncompleted Tower Hotel, Azikoro. The command, in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer, Asinim Butswat, said one Dautra Abakara and one Agonto Gimta went into the premises with their cows for grazing. Butswat said the cop was attacked by one of the herders, who attempted to disarm him and his cocked gun accidentally discharged and a bullet hit him in his right foot. He stated, “The policemen on duty and the civilian guards asked the herdsmen to leave the premises, but the herders refused to leave. “In an attempt to arrest them, one of the herdsmen tried to disarm a policeman and the officer’s cocked rifle discharged and the bullet pierced his right foot. “The suspects, Dautra Abakara and Agonto Gimta, were arrested and detained for further investigation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  