Chief Edwin Clark, a former Minister of Information, speaks with SUCCESS NWOGU, on the need to amend the constitution, where the President should come from in 2023 and other national issues What is your take on restructuring? Do you think Nigeria should be restructured now? Restructuring is the main reason why the leaders of the South, Middle Belt came together to form the Southern and Middle Belt leaders Forum and I am the chairman. We believe in restructuring of this country. I was a prominent member at the 2014 National Conference in Abuja, which was drawn from all over the country.  In fact, all the segments of the society were represented. So, we had meetings for over four months. We agreed and made over 600 recommendations and there was even a draft constitution that contained all that we recommended. We thought part of it should be giving to the National Assembly while others will be done by the President through effective implementation. The report is there. But for this government to say they have nothing to do with the report is surprising. Restructuring was one of the cardinal points in the manifesto of the All Progressives Congress. For them to now abandon it is shocking. They went ahead to appoint the El-Rufai committee which went round the country and made recommendations which were almost the same with the 2014 confab recommendations. So the NASS should marry the two and give us a good constitution.  We believe in restructuring. Without restructuring, nobody can govern this country properly because the constitution is one-sided. The Nigerian Constitution made Nigeria’s President, one of the most powerful presidents in the world. He is too powerful. There is so much power in the hands of the President. The recent speech made by (former President Olusegun) Obasanjo was on the point. During his time, it was true federalism, now it is restructuring. They are the same. Where should power be in 2023? I believe fair is fair. In this country, every citizen is equal with the other. From 1951 to 1954, Dr, Nnamdi Azikiwe was the greatest politician in Nigeria. He was the leader of NCNC, a party that derived its membership from all parts of the country. We had NPC which was a regional party, we also had the Action Group which was a regional party in the West. They tried to spread to the Middle Belt. When those governments were formed, the South-East leaders played a very leading role, but unfortunately, they have not been able to produce a President for this country. General J.T Aguiyi-Ironsi was there as Head of State for a very short time before the counter coup that killed him. The East should not be treated as if they come from another country. When the Civil war was fought and won between 1967 and 1970, General Yakubu Gowon  said there were no victor and no vanquished. Therefore everybody in the country should come together and build a new country. Some of us took part in doing that. I particularly participated in seeing that the three Rs: rehabilitation, reconstruction and reconciliation were implemented. I followed my governor, Brigadier Samuel Ogbemudia to the East and we knew what we did there. The mere fact that we fought a war does not make an Igbo man a second class citizen. Then you should have allowed them to go. If they knew that they were going to be second class citizens in their country, they would have fought to the end. The former President said they thought the war was going to end in three or six months, but it lasted three years. They had a reason for fighting. They are not mad people. They were defending themselves. Now that the war was over, one expected that every Nigerian is equal and let us forget the war. After the second World War, between 1939 and 1945, there was a marshal plan which developed Germany and other countries that were destroyed. Today, France and Germany are the closest allies in the European Union. So why should we be thinking today that the Igbos fought a war, you misinterpret anything they do? The South-East produces oil and yet they are not represented in the NNPC Board. On what ground? Every ethnic nationality in Nigeria is equal to the other. The moment you say your religion is superior, your ethnicity is superior, then there is no Nigeria. Power should move to the South-East and not South-West. Those who are talking about South-West, is it because Senator Bola Tinubu wants to become the President of Nigeria? Why? What are his credentials? In the last presidential election, you find that the PDP presidential candidate, Atuku Abubakar, had his running mate from the South-East, Mr. Peter Obi. Can you say Obi cannot rule this country? There are many Obis in the East. Forget about governors and parliamentarians. I am always having meeting with Ohanaeze and Afenifere, and Middle Belt. The President of Ohaeneze today, Dr John Nwodo, can rule this country. He has the qualities. So I do not know why some people will be discriminating against their fellow Nigerians. Who says Nigeria belongs to you alone? I have to congratulate El-Rufai for saying that the next President of Nigeria should come from the South and we the Southerners believe it should go to the South- East. READ ALSO: Buhari appoints Osinbajo to head power sector reforms group The South-West has come up with Operation Amotekun in response to these rising security challenges, do you support this move? Do you think South-South governors should emulate it? We support the setting up of Amotekun because if the government that has the power, to provide security and welfare for its people is not able to do it now, the people will resort to self-help. What happened with the Fulani herdsmen has never happened in this country. What happened in Benue State where you have mass graves and the president said, ‘Go and accommodate your neighbours?’ So I welcome Amotekun. I am the leader of PANDEF, we are now telling our governors, ‘don’t sleep. You are part of this country.  You are governing us. Be bold and courageous enough to set up what the South-West has done.’ In the South-West, there is only one governor (Oyo State, Seyi Makinde) who is a member of the Peoples Democratic Party. All the other five are members of the All Progressives Congress which controls the FG but they went ahead and do what they are doing. I was shocked in the South-East, the governors are engaged in macabre dance! They said they will set up a similar thing like Amotekun but when recently, the Inspector-General of Police, (Mohammed Adamu) met with them, they started singing another song. They now believe in community policing. Do they know what community policing is? Everyone of us knows what community policing is. Some of us were civilian policemen in our communities. We used to attend meetings. When it was going to be controlled from the centre, what is its job?  How is it different from community policing in other parts of the world where they even have their state police? There is too much power at the centre, they want to control everything. So, let the states or regions set up their own defence. After all in the constitution, the governors swore an oath that they will provide security and welfare for their people as the President did at the centre. But today, they are powerless. The police are not in their hands and the army are not in their hands. How do you call a man ‘Chief Security Officer,’ when he cannot do anything to protect his people? So, I recommend it. We at the South-South, South-West, South-East and Middle Belt leaders have already accepted Amotekun. There should be self-defence. We are telling our governors to do the same. There is still a lot of poverty in the oil bearing states even though they are cash crow of the nation. The states collect 13 per cent derivation and there is also the Niger Delta Development Commission. So, what could be the reason for the poverty in the oil producing states? The oil industry was originally controlled by the expatriates and by the Federal Government. Today, we the owners of the oil in the states where it flows are not in it. People from outside the Niger Delta are the people controlling and managing the oil industry. They are the ones spending the money without considering our plight. For instance, take the board of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, which is the engine room of the oil industry. According to the law setting up NNPC, there is a nine member board. It should be membered by technocrats. Since this government (Buhari) came into power, the NNPC board has been reorganised, new directors have been appointed, out of the nine, six of them are from the north and no oil is being produced in the north. South-West produces oil in Ondo, they have one member, South-East produces oil but they have no member in the NNPC board, the South-South has only one member. So the question is: on what bases were these appointments made? The problems of the Niger Delta are accumulating; the ecosystem of the area has been damaged. Even the mango trees are dying. We have no water to drink, yet we sit on top of water. All our fishes have been killed by pollution. We have no electricity. See what is happening in Ogoni! The United Nations reported that the pollution in Ogoni should be cleared. How many years now have gone since then? Nothing was done in the administrations of Obasanjo, late Umaru Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan. But this government (Buhari) said they would do something but today, I do not know long how long they will go. You have patronages here and there. The people of the Niger Delta are not participating in the oil industry well. The Local Content law does not favour us. We are not benefitting from the oil industry, so we are very poor. The man who controls the money is the most powerful man. The 13 per cent derivation we all fought for came into being in 1999.  What does the 1999 Constitution say? It says, a minimum of 13 per cent.  That is about 20 years now, yet nothing has been added to it. During the 2005 Conference set up by Chief Obasanjo, I was the leader of our people that went there and we asked for a minimum of 25 per cent increase. They refused, particularly the northern delegates under the leadership of the now late Olusola Saraki and Umaru Dikko. They were the leaders of the northern delegation.  We argued over it, they refused and at the end, they said they will give us 15 per cent. We said No! That was why we staged a walkout under my leadership. So, when you talk about the 13 per cent derivation, the amount of money required to develop our area is huge. If you can build a bungalow in Abuja with N20m, a bungalow in the Niger Delta will cost N60m because of the terrain. That does not mean that I am defending the governors. They also have a case to answer.  If they have been spending well the 13 per cent derivation for the oil producing areas, today most of the complaints of the youths will not have arisen. The Federal Government cannot do everything. So, one is not defending any one of them. But corruption and the misuse of public funds have been the order of the day. What about appointments in NNPC? But your people have been benefitting? Can you imagine NNPC will employ 55 senior managers, out of the 55, 36 went to the North? Why? Then they appointed very senior managers, directors or deputy directors, out of the 15, 10 went to the North, three went to the West, two came to the South-South where over 85 to 90 per cent of the oil come from, and none to the east, which also produces oil. What type of country, do we belong to? Is it right for the President to transfer his supervisory powers over the NDDC to the Minister of the Niger Delta, as the supervisory powers of the NDDC Act are vested in the president? I do not see anything wrong in it. When the Ministry of Niger Delta was created, by the late President Umaru Yar’Adua,  I knew he was going to allow it and when he created the Ministry of Niger Delta, we thought he was going to transfer it, but it was not done. Transferring the presidential power to the Minister is better. Why? The Secretary to the Government of the Federation was controlling the NDDC. Major contracts were awarded with his approval. So, when it was with the Presidency, it was not performing very well, money was not paid in time. Too much money today is owed the NDDC. We went to court at some time and they said we should settle it out of court. What is important is: is the NDDC performing well? It is not now. There is a lot of corruption in that place. Today, you find the board of NDDC made up of the state commissioners, the executive directors and three or four members. Until last time, all of them used to come from the North. So, it was a political appointment, one member must have gone to the South West. NDDC has its own problem. Those who manage NDDC have not done well at all! The NDDC has not performed well at all. But that is not an excuse for us to be neglected, for us to be by-passed, and be humiliated the way they are treating us as if we are second class citizens in our own country. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Coronavirus caused food price hike, setback for students in China – President, Nigerian Students Association in Wuhan Would you say events happening in the country in recent months  show that the country is improving for better? It is very unfortunate that today we are at a crossroad. And one cannot say “Oh immediately Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) came to power things become bad. No! Nigerians have been facing problems even during the administrations of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Alhaji Umaru Yar’Adua and Dr Goodluck Jonathan. But things were not as bad as this because this country was one. It was a united country where no religion was superior to the others, where no ethnic group was superior to the other but when we expected that Buhari who was the Head of State in this country between December 1983 and 1985. Anybody that wants to be the President of Nigeria must be that person who will rule Nigeria as a country and not as a section of the country. So, many of us have been wondering why Buhari has not lived up to expectations of a true leader who should have had a united country under him. We had believed that having attempted to become the President of Nigeria, failed three times and at the last time, he won, that he had a message for Nigeria, to develop Nigeria and make it a great country. When he, during his inauguration, said, he does not belong to any body and at the same thing, he belongs to everybody, one had expected that the problems confronting the nation, particularly Boko Haram insurgents that have been harassing Nigerians, would be put to a stop, particularly when it was thought that the terrorist will respect him. There was a time when there was to be peace treaty between Boko Haram and the Federal Government, Boko Haram nominated Buhari as their representative. So, one was expecting that they will respect him, and Boko Haram will go, thinking that they were only there to harass Jonathan’s government but no! I think that was the main thing that persuaded Nigerians that they needed to have a peaceful country, where there will be not Boko Haram or any other problem and they said ‘let us give this man, who is a soldier the opportunity to rule.’ He also promised to fight corruption and we also thought that since he has a three programme: to eradicate corruption in the country, improve on security improve the economy, Nigeria will be a better place to live in. But today, this is the fifth year, and his second tenure he came to power as a civilian president, we have not seen that. Insecurity is getting worse, Boko Haram is still there. I asked a senior military officer on Garkida how far is Garkida from the border that these insurgence go away every time after attacking people? The military officer  from that place said, ‘No, Garkida is very far from  the borders and it is in the middle of Adamawa State. That these insurgents are in many places: some are in the mountains, and Sambisa forest. So the question is: if these people have been driven from Nigeria as they (FG) claimed, do the insurgents come from neighbouring country to attack Nigerians every time and go back and our soldiers are not able to chase them out of this country? Added to Boko Haram, today we have Fulani herdsmen ravaging many parts of this country. They are even in the water, they swim across rivers in the Niger Delta. They carry AK-47 rifles. And the government said they got their guns from Libya, Mali and other places. Today, not a single Fulani herdsmen has been arrested and the gun taken away from him. But we are being told that the Federal Government has set up a committee under the chairmanship of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo to talk about small arms. That is not the problem. Nigerians are not causing problem. In the United States of America, every American has a gun. It does not worry them. Any presidential candidate in the US who wants to pass a law that US citizens will not carry gun again will fail. We fought the civil war before the British. So, why are we setting up committee how to recover guns from innocent Nigerians, even those who are licenced? That is not our problem. Today, you have kidnapping going on many places. We were the first to experience kidnapping in the Niger Delta. That time the militant in the Niger Delta were not kidnapping people for money and they were not kidnapping Nigerians. They concentrated on white men, who were in the oil industry.  I remember a case when 14 expatriates  were kidnapped; they were going to work for Wellbores in Port Harcourt. That was the time of our former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo.  I went to see him in Abuja and we discussed. I told him that he should allow me to go to the creeks so that the kidnapped expatriates would be released. IHe said I should go on and do it if I could do it. I went to the creeks and I appealed to the youths to please release the expatriates. And they agreed. Ambassador Godknows Igali was the Secretary of the Government in Bayelsa State then and Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, who was also the Secretary to the Government of Delta State were responsible for going to the creeks for the release of the white men. But the boys said the expatriates should be handed over to me. So, I had to go to Warri and the expatriates were handed over to me. So, the Niger Delta militants were not kidnapping people for money, or killing them. All they wanted was to draw the attention of the FG and the international community to the damages oil industries were causing in their place and nothing was coming to them.  Today, kidnappers, kidnap people on the roads, in the streets; they have also gone to the extent of breaking into people’s houses, seizing people from their homes and demanding for money.  This is a terrible situation! And we have a government!  So, how many kidnappers caught by the government have been prosecuted and jailed to show example to the public? They arrest them and nobody knows what else happens to them. Then we thought the whole problem was in the North East but today, people are being killed. In Kaduna State, few days ago, about 50 people were killed. It is not enough for the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, to say, “I am sorry, I apologise to you that we have not been able to provide sufficient security for you!” How many people are being killed in Nigeria? Look at the case of Katsina State, even when the Governor of that State, Babagana Zulum, went to the forest/desert to negotiate with the marauders. What is happening today, more people are being kidnapped and killed in Katsina State, the home state of Mr President. READ ALSO: How Dangote restored ANAMMCO, created jobs in South-East A major concern in recent times has been the issue of the sharp rise in killings, banditry and kidnappings. What in your view is responsible for these? Al these things happening may not be deliberate at such in all the places. In some places, they may be deliberate but in other places, necessities could be the reason. These are people who have no food to eat and no job, unemployment has risen. The other day, someone told me that his five children who graduated are in the house being fed by him. You find a situation whereby jobs are very scarce, the economy is not doing well and power has reduced. One had expected that when power was privatised by the previous administration, we would have more light but the present administration has not done as expected. We still have power challenge as we had in the previous administration and sometimes, it is even worse. Some of us have to buy diesel every day. Also young men who have need for light have no light to power their businesses. So, there is no industry in the country.  It is a shame that everyone and the whole country is looking up towards  Aliko Dangote, for his refinery to come into operation. And he is also a major producer and  seller in the cement industry, maybe we would have still be importing cement. The situation is very bad. There is no industry functioning. Even agriculture that we have been talking about, how can farmers go to the farms when herdsmen are chasing them out of their farms? I went home during the Christmas, I was at home for two months, women from the surrounding villages were coming to me as their leader, complaining about their inability to go to farms because of the activities of the Fulani herdsmen. For instance, 25 women from Ughelli South Local Government Area came to me to report to me that they could not go to their farms. Even women from my village also complained that Fulani herdsmen are in the bush and in their farms. So there is fear! Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 