Tony Okafor, Awka The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2017 governorship elections in Anambra State, Mr Oseloka Obaze, has expressed his interest in seeking for the office come 2021. Obaze, who was Secretary to the Anambra State Government during the administration of former governor Peter Obi, said he remained the candidate of the party until otherwise stated. When reminded that the sentiment in that state was that Anambra South Senatorial District should produce the next governor, Obaze, who is from Anambra North, the same district as the current Governor Willie Obiano, said, “Zoning is a red herring, since it’s party-based. And what is applicable is what the party constitution says. “If the operative words here are ‘thrown open’, it presupposes that the party is jettisoning its extant zoning policy, which is not the case. As far as I know, the PDP is not into zoning. As to my personal disposition, since 2017, I have been in the race. “I remain in the race and will always be in the race, because I have been proactively engaged in the process of engendering purposeful leadership and sustainable development change to Anambra State. “Like most, I remain painfully conscious of Anambra’s need for a skilled leader that is committed to redirecting the state towards sustainable development and greatness. I’m also mindful that Anambra has experienced huge missed opportunities and loss of time, financial and material resources. That ought to be redressed urgently.” He debunked claims in some quarters that the PDP was factionalised, adding, “Our executive members are intact with Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu as the chairman. “I must admit, however, that there are some people within and on the fringes of the party, who like to create uncertainties that give impetus to mercantile politics. “Such people believe we are yet in another ‘trading season.’ But my personal view is that the party is supreme and must ensure discipline within its rank and file. “Those who undermine the party ought to be disciplined. We witnessed such disciplinary actions in the recent past.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    