Samuel Awoyinfa The House of Representatives Committee on Industry has lamented that the country was currently being overwhelmed by substandard goods. The committee said this at the end of its oversight visit to the Standards Organisation of Nigeria headquarters at Lekki, and its modern laboratory located at Ogba-Ikeja, both in Lagos on Thursday. The lawmakers noted that this could be traceable to the removal of some regulatory agencies, especially the Standards Organisation of Nigeria from the seaports and airports, saying this has led to the influx of substandard products into the country. The Chairman of the committee, Dolapo Badiru, who spoke for the team at the end of the visit, said many Nigerians had been victims of fake drugs, substandard iron rods and tyres, among others, and this was due to the absence of the agencies that should intercept them at the points of entry. Badiru, who said the personnel of the Nigeria Customs Services might not be competent to detect all substandard goods at the entry points, added that those agencies that were specifically responsible for such detection should be at the right place. On October 10, 2011, former President Goodluck Jonathan had approved the sacking of 10 government agencies, including SON from the country’s seaports. But the committee said it was unfortunate that SON was not at the ports, adding that the law establishing the agency stated that the standards body must be present at the ports to monitor products being produced and imported into the country. He said, “There is an enabling law that backs the presence of the personnel of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria at the seaports and airports. “But removing them by a mere pronouncement is uncalled for. We will get to the root of this, and ensure that the SON is back at the entry points.” The Director-General, SON, Osita Aboloma, said the organisation would continue to carry out its mandatory functions in safeguarding the lives of Nigerians. He said the SON had the capacity and trained personnel to meet its mandates, while he supported the lawmakers in advocating for the return of the agency to the ports and other entry points. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  