Ebenezer Bajela Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has revealed that despite the postponement of the National Sports Festival and the Tokyo 2020 Olympics due to the outbreak of coronavirus, the ministry has continued to keep in touch with each of the athletes. Dare made this known at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja, during his inspection of facilities made available for use as distribution centres to curb the spread of the virus. The minister also talked on how to help the athletes survive during this unprecedented phase of challenges occasioned by the covid-19 pandemic. He said, “The Nigerian authority through the sports ministry called off the National Sports Festival. Several of our athletes overseas could not practice again because the sporting facilities were shut down. What we have done as a Ministry and as a country is to be in touch with each one of them because we have a database, to know what their plans are, to know what support they it need. “The Adopt an Athlete plan that we have, the funds are going to them so we are happy that those funds can help them at this period when some of them cannot make money from competitions. They are free to leverage on that, they can also look for indoor facilities where they can practice, they can pay to use those facilities so, there’s a continuous engagement with our athletes.” The Minister added that the country would stick to 11 sports as earlier agreed and that funds have been released for pending qualifiers which those athletes can go for as soon as the spread of virus is stemmed. He urged the athletes to continue to practice even as the ministry continues to plan and strategise. Revealing that the athletes are also lending their voices to curb the spread of COVID-19, he said, “As we speak, in another two days, the athletes both foreign and home based in this country, 33 of them are completing a video to join their voices to the awareness campaign including myself. “It’s being produced as we speak. You will see our athletes from across the world and also home-based speaking and giving out messages of encouragement. So they’re really involved in this and I think that we will be prepared whenever the Olympics will be ready. “What is of the utmost urgency right now is that effort to make sure that COVID-19’s spread is contained and this country can be free again.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 