Dr. Sylvester Ikhisemojie Short periods can be considered normal if they last for around two days. If they are less than that, it could mean that there is a problem with fertility especially in a woman who is trying to get pregnant. This is particularly so if the periods have previously been normal and have suddenly become short. If any woman is concerned about that, it is important they seek the opinion and examination of their doctor. That doctor will be greatly useful in helping to determine the possible cause of the abnormal situation and provide the required remedy to the situation. Accordingly, a woman should see a doctor if they have the suspicion that they are no longer fertile or have the inkling that they no longer ovulate as long as they are within the reproductive age. Other reasons for seeking a doctor’s opinion will have to be a situation in which they experience any form of vaginal bleeding despite having done a pregnancy test which is positive. The same level of worry is welcome if any woman has vaginal bleeding which is painful no matter the duration. Short periods can therefore occur for various reasons and there may be no specific cause. Normally, a typical period would last between two and seven days. So that if the period extends beyond seven days, there may be a health issue just as it should be a matter for concern if the period becomes less than two days. Most of the time, bleeding that is mischaracterised as a short period is not even a period at all. It could therefore be a cycle in which there was no ovulation or it may be a sign of a pregnancy. It is important to know that each person is unique in having their periods and while it may be as long as seven days for some people, it may be a heavy two-day flow for others. The usual period therefore, can vary greatly in length but most women have their flow lasting between three and five days. Even among first degree relatives such as a sibling or a mother, the normal length of the period amongst them can vary widely and not bear any similarity at all. That said, there are people who menstruate every 42 days and are able to get pregnant even though that is clearly not normal. When a shorter period occurs, it could be a result of a pregnancy as we have seen above but can often occur also after a delayed period or a missed one. Depending on the volume of blood loss, such bleeding could be the result of the loss of a pregnancy or simple spotting due to an early pregnancy. In many women, such bleeding associated with pregnancy can occur throughout the first three months, known as the first trimester, when about one quarter of all pregnant women can bleed. If such bleeding is seen at about two weeks after a period was expected or when the normal period was expected, it may then be an early pregnancy spotting or a delayed implantation bleeding. This occurrence is referred to as being delayed because such bleeding associated with implantation should typically occur midway between ovulation and implantation. However, if all women take the attitude that any vaginal bleeding that is less than two days and longer than seven is not good news, a lot more misunderstanding will be avoided. And although such bleeding can often be a normal occurrence during early pregnancy as explained above, it may also indicate the loss of a pregnancy and in either situation, a doctor should be consulted for necessary advice and action. The same is true for those women who begin to observe some changes with their periods especially at the age range from 45 to 55 years of age when the cycles can become shorter. When the cycles thus become shorter and less frequent, it is generally known that the menopause is approaching and there ought to be no need to worry unduly. When these changes are seen, it is often due to the period known as the climacteric in which the body is essentially being prepared for the menopause. We dealt with the issue of the menopause about five years ago on this page and many of the associated features such as hot flushes, difficulty with sleeping, night sweats, vaginal dryness, emotional turmoil and reduced libido are added occurrences that make it easy to diagnose. Consequently, it is not all the time that a diminished blood flow spells trouble. Another possible cause of the short period is the polycystic ovary syndrome seen in as many as one in 10 of women of reproductive age. This malady can change the length of a woman’s period and may lengthen it or shorten it apart from also causing it to become irregular. Other features associated with the constellation of problems seen in this disease are obesity, an oily skin, infertility, excess hair growth around the body especially in the legs, chest and even chin as well as the appearance of cysts on the ovaries which are sacs of water in essence. When the ovaries do not release an egg, such a woman does not have regular periods. This typically occurs in those who are approaching menopause and their periods then become irregular. Other features of this problem may be chills, pelvic pain and both bowel and bladder dysfunction as well as vaginal discharge. These problems can also be seen in younger women who have suffered from premature menopause. Another possible cause of an abnormally shorter period than what a woman is used to having is endometriosis which is diagnosed when the normal tissue seen in the uterus also begins to grow elsewhere in the body such as the ovaries, the uterus, vagina, bladder, rectum, cervix and in the intestines. Occasionally, these tissues can even be found in the lungs, brain and skin. This problem causes bleeding or spotting of blood in between periods that often makes people think that they are experiencing a shorter period than normal. Sometimes, there is related bleeding from the navel during the menstrual period. However, when other symptoms such as pain, inability to get pregnant and digestive problems become associated with the short periods, then a diagnosis of the problem is all but certain. The treatment for such will involve an operation and hormonal treatment. Dear doctor, what exactly is the major cause of prostate in men and how can it be avoided or prevented? God bless you sir. 0703xxxxxxx The prostate is a gland found somewhere underneath the bladder. It is found only in males. There is a progressive increase in size throughout life. I imagine you mean to ask about prostate enlargement in your brief question. So here is your answer. It is not something you can avoid or prevent by taking a vaccine or something like that. It is a fact of life. However, the rate of enlargement of the prostate varies among men and while it may be rapid in some, it is much slower in others. Dear doctor, I am a 61-year-old woman and about three months ago, I felt something like a boil in the upper part of my back. It was not painful even when I gave it a squeeze. But, I am able to squeeze out some smelly substance after which the size reduces and then it starts growing again. I hope this is not cancer and I am worried. Please help me. Thank you very much. 0909xxxxxxx The growth which you described above seems to me to be what is known as a sebaceous cyst. This is typically a swelling that results when the skin in that area is unable to expel its sweat, sebum and oils as a result of a blocked pore. All those materials then gather together and create a cavity which force their way out occasionally through an exit passage or when you help it by creating a pressure to do likewise. Typically, this kind of thing does no more than cause irritation and you can safely ignore it. However, if you are concerned about it, you should see a doctor for confirmation and their opinion. Occasionally, if it is located at a part of your back where it makes it unwise for you to wear certain clothes, you could elect to have it removed for cosmetic considerations. Dear doctor, coronavirus is in Lagos now. I do not think we have the facilities to manage it. The Italian man is in the isolation unit in Yaba. Do you think Nigeria can handle the virus? 0806xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your comments. You are probably aware that there is concern and even alarm at the moment for a disease that has affected more than 100,000 people today around the world and killed more than 3,400 others. These are official figures especially with respect to China and Iran, not to mention North Korea about whom the world has heard nothing. No single country has shown an ability to manage the condition with respect to prevent deaths and further been able to prove that it can control these infections and even prevent others from dying. The major concern has to be the fact that most of the people who can effectively spread this infection do not have symptoms at the time they spread it. In our own case at home, we just have to trust the government to be able to protect the majority of the people. Dear doctor, I am a 43-year-old man with a wife and daughter. I live and work in Nigeria. My family is based in the United States and I visit them twice a year. Of late, I have found that I am less able to satisfy my wife. I know she has been faithful in my absence but what can I do to improve her sexual satisfaction the next time we meet? I am concerned about this and need your sincere help sir. Thank you very much. 0706xxxxxxx It is usual at your age to experience issues like this. It is not a major problem and should resolve itself after a short period. However, your anxieties can be reduced by having you take some sex enhancement medications after your doctor must have examined you and determined which one might be the best for your use. Over time, you will have no need to continue using them when your normal level of libido returns. Dear doctor, thanks for your article and the explanations you provide. Is it possible for a child of 10 months to have cancer of the kidney? What is to be done sir in this case? We are handicapped with nowhere to turn to but we are skeptical of the diagnosis. We are afraid too because of all the tests we are being asked to do. Now they say they will refer us to the teaching hospital. Thank you sir.0809xxxxxxx It is all possible. As a matter of fact, such a disease has a specific name and is called Wilm’stumour. Such a diagnosis must be taken seriously and provided you saw a competent doctor, you have no reason to be skeptical of the diagnosis. While it is not common to have this kind of disease it nevertheless happens and this is about the age at which the earliest cases are seen and so on up to the age of five or more years. So children can have cancer of the kidney. An early confirmation of the disease, the extent of spread and other associated issues need to be dealt with so that the best possible treatment can be obtained. These will include an operation followed by chemotherapy. Whether or not radiotherapy will be included will depend on the extent of the disease. Right now, there is no time to waste. Dear doctor, my wife has fibroid. We have been told about the problem about four years ago now and she was scheduled to have an operation for it. At that time, we did not have the money. Now, sir, when she is having her period, I used to pity her. There will be blood everywhere and the pain used to be too much. What can we do to deal with this problem now? 0705xxxxxxx Good day sir and thank you very much for your question. When a fibroid has reached the stage at which blood loss is torrential, it is a risk to your wife’s life. The pain is not so much the problem because there are medications that can control that. However, bleeding is entirely another thing and if it continues like this, she could collapse at home one day or even on her way to some place with unpredictable consequences. For now, in the absence of money to fund the operation, I believe you should seek your doctor’s advice and at least, find a way out of this for now which should include efforts to replace the blood she has lost. Dear doctor, my baby is eight months old and has been passing watery stools for the past 10 days. She can pass stool up to eight times a day and has lost some weight. I went to the hospital and some tests were done and I was told it was an infection. They then placed the baby on Zinnat syrup and Zinc tablets. The stooling has not stopped but has reduced to about five times a day. What do I do now and how do you think I can prevent this from happening again? I try to keep all her feeding materials clean and I do not understand this sir. 0803xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your question. Your daughter probably has the kind of diarrhoea that is caused by a virus. That is the most common cause of diarrhoea and vomiting in children under five years. So it is not compulsory that the use of the Zinnat would simply stop the stools. For one, it may have been prescribed to prevent a bacterial infection from taking advantage of her situation or it may have been given to you because there was evidence of such a bacterial infection particularly from the blood tests. Whatever was the reason for prescribing it, however, it is important that your baby sees a paediatrician for a more thorough assessment of her ailment so that the appropriate treatment can be given. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 