Dr Olaitan Abimbola is a Senior Registrar, Gastroenterology and Hepatology Unit, in the Internal Medicine Department of Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu, Ogun State. She talks to ALEXANDER OKERE about cirrhosis of the liver, a disease that could go unnoticed in the early stage but create serious complications later What is liver cirrhosis? Liver cirrhosis is a diffuse progressive process of liver fibrosis pathologically characterised by architectural distortion and nodular regenerative change. Liver cirrhosis comprises scars formed in a damaged liver while trying to heal itself. Apart from the scars, it tries to form new tissues which may become bigger than the normal one before the injury; these appear as big nodules which make the liver become bigger, harder and rough. What are the causes? Causes include hepatitis from viruses, alcohol, toxins and herbal concoction. All these cause abnormal functioning of the liver, generation of excess fat deposition, excess fibrous tissue and progression to cirrhosis. Excess alcohol is the problem. For example, beer of 600mls with five per cent alcohol content has 30 grammes of alcohol in it. Taking two of such a drink every day means 60 grammes. If a man takes this continuously for 10 years and above, it is significant to cause liver cirrhosis in him. Females taking half of this for the same duration can also have cirrhosis. Wine and spirits have higher alcoholic content than beer. So, persons combining different types have a higher risk of developing cirrhosis. Many Nigerians take herbal concoctions a lot for different health issues. Does that mean consumers of such herbs are at risk of cirrhosis? Just like alcohol, the concentration of the herbs, quantity and duration of intake determine how early such people will develop cirrhosis. Can stale food or expired drinks cause cirrhosis? Stale food or expired drinks do not cause cirrhosis. Only stale groundnuts, if infected with aspergillus flavus that produces aflatoxin, have been documented to predispose people to liver cancer, especially if such people also have hepatitis B infection. Beverages that are left to ferment also contain alcohol. If taken regularly for a long period, they can predispose one to liver cirrhosis. What are the symptoms and when do the signs or symptoms begin to show? Many (affected persons) are asymptomatic. Some have minor symptoms like fatigue, and major symptoms like abdominal pain, abdominal swelling from fluid accumulation jaundice, muscle wasting, change in sleep pattern – sleeping during the day and being awake at night – bleeding, as in vomiting blood or passing black stool containing blood; reducing level of consciousness and flapping tremor – evidence of excess toxin in the brain. In spite of these signs, can the condition still go unnoticed? In the early stage, symptoms may not show but as the disease progresses, symptoms can’t go unnoticed. In the early stage of excess fat in the liver, the person may not show any symptoms but as the person continues to expose the liver to the insult, the disease progresses into cirrhosis. What is the prevalence rate in Nigeria and is it common among certain categories of people? Liver cirrhosis accounts for approximately 20 per cent of all liver diseases in Nigeria with greater than 100,000 cases per year. It is common in people with chronic hepatitis, chronic alcohol abuse, and obese people with fatty liver. Other diseases like alpha1antitrypsin deficiency and Wilson disease – excess copper in the blood – and primary biliary cirrhosis can also lead to cirrhosis. Are there different stages of the condition? Liver cirrhosis can start as fatty deposits in the liver, enlargement of the liver, inflammation of the liver parenchyma, deposit of fibrous tissue and regeneration of nodules. Are there complications that may arise from cirrhosis? Complications include portal hypertension, variceal haemorrhage causing bleeding, and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, as generalised pain in a swollen abdomen; hepatorenal syndrome, as sudden failure of the previously normal kidney; and also cancer of the liver. How can diagnosis be done? Diagnosis includes the above symptoms and laboratory tests showing deranged liver enzymes, low albumin production from the liver, and prolonged clotting time. Abdominal scan will show the liver having distorted outline and nodules, enlarged spleen and fluid collected in the abdomen. A machine called fibro scan can also detect cirrhosis of the liver. How can it be treated? Treatment options include lifestyle modifications, like stopping alcohol intake, reducing salt in diet if fluid accumulation is present, avoiding constipation which can increase the generation of toxic substances and diffusion to the brain to avoid reducing level of consciousness. It is advisable to treat underlying causes which are treatable and manage the ones that are not treatable. Also, fluid accumulation could be treated with drugs diuretics or sterile draining if massive or drug resistant. READ ALSO: 29-year-old woman dies during sex romp in Rivers Is surgery required at any stage? Yes. Liver transplantation is a surgical procedure. Is it available and affordable in public hospitals? I am not aware of any public hospital that has the equipment but getting a donor is another problem which also happens in developed countries. Many are on a waiting list for a transplant.  That special criterion was created to evaluate those that need to have the transplant urgently from the scarcely available pool. It is a very expensive procedure, involving millions of naira. What are the healthy lifestyles Nigerians can practise to prevent cirrhosis? Healthy lifestyles to embrace include minimising alcohol intake, herbal concoction, excessive intake of vitamin A and safe sexual practices. It is good to get screened for hepatitis B and C, manage it if positive and get vaccination if negative. All forms of alcohol-based herbal concoction have a higher risk. Food rich in vitamin A includes beef liver, cod liver oil, sweet potato, carrot, mango, pumpkin, spinach, black-eyed peas and tomato juice. Avoid unprotected sexual intercourse with multiple sexual partners to reduce risk of exposure to the hepatitis virus which is a leading cause of cirrhosis. Liver cirrhosis is managed by a hepatologist. What kind of vaccination is available? Hepatitis B vaccine is available for prevention against hepatitis B infection in those that have been screened and are negative for hepatitis B infection, which is a leading cause of cirrhosis. The hepatitis B vaccine is readily available and free in government-owned hospitals. Three doses are given: first dose on the day of the first visit, second dose a month after and third dose by the sixth month. The vaccine is an active one that will stimulate the body’s immune system to provoke an antibody response that prevents the disease, if the person is exposed it. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 