Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki A roasted meat (suya) seller, Dawuda Ibrahim, has been taken to an Ebonyi State magistrates’ court for allegedly defiling a minor after luring her with the meat. It was gathered that the victim, was a regular customer of the suspect, and that the suspect had constantly asked her out but she rejected the advances. City Round gathered that on February 28, 2020, the victim went to buy suya (meat) from the suspect, and didn’t know that the suspect gave her a special one purportedly laced with love potion. It was learnt that the girl after eating the suya, followed Ibrahim to Enugu where he had canal knowledge of her. He was arraigned on one count of unlawful sexual intercourse on Thursday. The Police Prosecutor, ASP Mathias Eze, told the court that the offence was punishable under Section 360 of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. The charge read, “That you, Dawuda Ibrahim, on February 28, 2020, at Ugwuehara village, within Abakaliki Magisterial District, did unlawfully with an intent to have sexual intercourse with a girl, lured her to a place in Enugu State where you caressed by touching her breasts and other parts of body including her private parts, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 360 of the Criminal Code Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009.” The defendant who pleaded not guilty was granted bail by the presiding Chief Magistrate, Mrs Nnenna Onuoha, in the sum of N50,000 with one surety in like sum. The surety, according to the magistrate, must be resident within the jurisdiction of the court and must provide evidence of identification, such as National ID, voter card and passport. The matter was adjourned till April 4, 2020, for hearing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  