Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party National Youth Rebirth Forum on  Tuesday, called for the expulsion of a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Mr Timi Alaibe, from the PDP for alleged anti-party activities. Members of the group made the request during a protest at the PDP National Secretariat, Abuja. They also petitioned the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, to investigate Alaibe who is one of the 2019 Bayelsa State governorship aspirants. The National President of the group, Mr Bonire Solomon, who read the group’s petition during the protest, alleged that the court case instituted by Alaibe asking that he be declared the rightful candidate of the party for the 2019 Bayelsa State governorship election was in bad faith. Solomon said, “We have received very credible report that  Alaibe who cannot in anyway benefit from the current court case, is all out to do the bidding of some external forces in order to undermine and destroy the control of Bayelsa by the PDP. “That your leadership should take a cue from what recently happened in Kogi where a party aspirant took the governorship candidate to court and invalidated the candidacy of the party and rendered our efforts at the Kogi electoral tribunal useless, except the Appeal Court upturns the judgment of the high court, which will happen by the grace of God. “It is upon this reality, Mr Chairman, that we passionately appeal to the party to take necessary actions against the errant member before it is too late. Our great party is one that is guided by the rule of law and constitutionalism, your leadership is one that was elected under the dictates of constitutionalism, we therefore appeal to your leadership not to sleep over this very important matter but rise to take decisive action in the overall interest of our party. “It is in view of this and the danger his action poses that we demand immediate investigation into the allegations of working for enemies of the party, going to court against the party without due recourse to internal redress mechanisms of the party and expel him from the party, relying on Section 57(3) of the party constitution and other relevant sections of the constitution of our great party in the best interest of the party in order to stop his sinister plans.” When contacted, Alaibe said he would not respond to the allegations of the group because the matter was court. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  