Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The four prospective members of the National Youths Service Corps, who were abducted on Monday, have been rescued in Kadsina State. The victims – Ojo David, Ojewale Yetunde, Oladehin Olamigoke and Ade Adegboyega –  said they would observed their NYSC orientation in Katsina as against Zamfara State where they were posted to. The spokesman for the NYSC in Katsina, Mr Alex Oboemeta, said this shortly after the  rescued corps members were presented to Governor Aminu Masari at the Government House on Wednesday. Also presented to Masari were other nine prospective corps members who were in the same vehicle that was heading for Zamfara for the orientation before it was attacked by the bandits. The state NYSC spokesman said all the 13 corps members decided to do their orientation in Katsina in appreciation of the efforts of security operatives and the state government to ensure their rescue. It was also learnt that Masari gave each of prospective corps members N100, 000 as reimbursement for their material losses to the suspected bandits. The state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Gambo Isah, said six of  the bandits who kidnapped the prospective corps members were killed by  the joint team of police, soldiers and repentant bandits during rescue effort. Isah spoke at a press conference shortly after the 13 corps members were handed over to the NYSC Katsina Coordinator, Alhaji Ahidjo Yahaya. The police spokesman said, “On 9 March,2020, around 11.30pm, some bandits armed with AK47-rifles, blocked Funtua-Gusau Road in the Funtua Local Government Area of Katsina State, stopped an 18-seater bus with number plate, ANK 72 XA, driven by one Sanusi Ibrahim of Marafa, Zamfara State, and kidnapped all the 13 passengers, comprising 13 corps members and five others. “The DPO ,Makera division and team responded to a distress call and arrived timely at the scene. On arrival,the team searched the nearby bush and rescued 14 passengers made up of nine corps members and five others, while four corps members and one civilian were abducted off by the fleeing bandits.” “Today ( Wednesday), succeeded in locating the camp of the kidnappers, engaged them in a fierce gun duel and rescued the remaining four corps members and a civilian. “Furthermore, the team killed six of the kidnappers, recovered one AK-47 and one LAR rifles, among others. “All the four corps members are from Akure,Ondo State, heading for the NYSC camp in Tsafe, Zamfara State.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com