Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government has inaugurated a ministerial technical committee on the formulation of a framework for sustainable development and growth of the metals industry. It said the inauguration of the committee was part of ongoing efforts to diversify the economy from its dependence on oil and gas. Inaugurating the committee members on Tuesday in Abuja, the Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Uchechukwu Ogah, said the committee came at a time when the government was working towards diversifying Nigeria’s mono-product economy by focusing more on the non-oil sector. He said the metals industry was unarguably the bedrock of industrialisation and the key ingredient for sustainable growth and development of many nations. Ogah said, “Virtually, everything we use today either has components of metals or produced using metallic equipment.” The minister, who was represented by the Director, Artisanal and Small Scale Mining Department, Patrick Ojeka, said the government was committed to developing the metals industry with a view to increasing revenue generation, creating employment and reducing poverty. The minister said the committee would also have a second look at the draft Nigeria Metallurgical Industry Bill as well as the regulations from the bill. He urged members of the committee to bring their wealth of experience to bear on rebuilding the ailing metals industry and enable the country to utilise locally available raw materials for economic diversification. The Chairman of the 13-member committee, who is the director, Metallurgical Inspectorate and Raw Material Development Department, Victor Ihebinike, expressed gratitude to the Federal Government for its determination to develop the sector. He assured the minister that the committee would work assiduously to justify the confidence reposed in them. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 