Nike Popoola Leading female entrepreneurs in the financial sector have advised upcoming ladies to ensure continuous development of their abilities and be risk takers as they aspire to become successful in their chosen career lines. They spoke during a webinar titled ‘Women who lead’, which was organised in honour of the Group Chief Executive Officer, Emerging Africa Capital Group, Mrs Toyin Sanni’s 55th birthday. Nationalities from different countries participated at the webinar on Thursday. Narrating her success journey, the Chairman, First Bank of Nigeria, Ibukun Awosika, said her father made positive impact because he encouraged his daughters. While advising up-comers, she said, “You need to be more deliberate about what is relevant, what is useful and what is adding value to your journey.” A former Director General, Securities and Exchange Commission, Arunma Oteh, urged upcoming females to define what success was and be rigorous in achieving their aims. She said, “Your values are important because you should have integrity, compassion and empathy. “You should take responsibility for your lives actions; ensure excellence, invest in yourself, have courage and be risk takers.” She urged the women to have strong relationships, maintain positive attitude and be passionate about their lives and families. When failing was handled well, she said, it could help to take the person to greater success. Oteh also urged the women to make good impact and help others. The Group Chairman, Emerging Africa Capital, Dr Onikepo Akande, said Sanni was one of the leading figures in the Nigerian financial sector who was passionate about women. She also said that having more women in leadership position was important because women had produced impressive results at different times. Sanni, who just recovered from COVID-19 said her family was an integral part of her success and appreciated those who had supported her. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com