Rotimi Adesanya Colorectal cancer starts in the colon or the rectum. These cancers can also be called colon cancer or rectal cancer, depending on where they start. Colon cancer and rectal cancer are often grouped together because they have many features in common. Colorectal cancer is simply any cancer that affects the colon and rectum. Most colorectal cancers start as a growth on the inner lining of the colon or rectum. These growths are called polyps. The month of March has been recognised as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month. The American Cancer society declared the month as an opportunity to educate the community about the dangers, prevention and treatment of colon cancer. Because it is about a part of the body that people often feel embarrassed to talk about, there is a general lack of awareness about the disease. It has also, at times, kept colon cancer patients unaware of treatment options and prevented early detection and treatment. Colon cancer is often beatable when caught early, yet it is one of the leading causes of cancer deaths. Being informed and knowing what preventative measures one can take is the first step. The death of Chadwick Boseman from colon cancer is a tragic telling story that shook the whole world with millions of his fans still in shock. The story had it that within the last four years he was in and out of the hospital for one form of therapy or the other ranging from surgery to chemotherapies among other treatments. Boseman died on August 28, 2020, after battling colon cancer for four years. May his soul rest in peace. This piece was largely contributed by Dr Adedapo Osinowo, a medical teacher and Consultant General and Colorectal Surgeon from the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba. “It is a poignant reminder of a recent trend which is colorectal cancer in the young (< 40 years old); this group constitute a segment of the population that ordinarily will not be screened.  Not surprisingly, Chadwick Boseman was diagnosed at stage three which means that the disease was already advanced and unfortunately the treatment then is at best palliative. He must have had any of the common symptoms of colorectal cancer which he either ignored or trivialised or worst still, his doctors ignored because colorectal cancer is not considered to be common in young people. According to the revered colorectal surgeon, the lessons to be learnt from this tragic story are: He further advised that we should therefore use this painful situation to keep abreast of all the common symptoms of colorectal cancer. These red flags or symptoms he said are not associated with typhoid or malaria. If you have any of these, please see a doctor who will refer you to a general surgeon and be comprehensively evaluated. Red flags “If you have any of what we call the red flag signs, do not ignore your symptoms no matter what your age is, and these are: 5.Persistent abdominal discomfort – feeling bloated, cramps or excessive gas Preventions Screening Several types of screening can be used. No matter which test you choose, the most important thing is to get tested. Stool Tests: Faecal Occult Blood Test/Faecal Immunochemical Test: Can detect blood in stool caused by tumors or polyps. Health care provider gives the patient at-home kit. Flexible Sigmoidoscopy: Slender tube inserted through the rectum into the colon. Provides visual examination of the rectum and lower part of colon. Colonoscopy: Direct exam of colon and rectum. Polyps removed if present. Required for abnormal results from other tests. In conclusion, prevention and screening of colorectal cancer can and should commence from age 40 since it is believed that life starts at 40! Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 