’Femi Asu The Nigerian Economic Summit Group and the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning have said they will deliberate on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Nigerian economy during a series of virtual pre-summit conversations and events. The NESG said the events would engage stakeholders to shape strategic partnerships to chart a path to recovery, and build resilience for the country’s economy, businesses and households to put Nigeria in a strong position within the changing world order. The pre-summit events will focus on sectors such as agriculture, digital economy, sustainability, and sports as a business, according to a statement entitled ‘#NES26 pre-summit events: Imperatives for a national dialogue’. It said the events would be organised in collaboration with corresponding ministries, departments and agencies of the Nigerian government, among other stakeholders. The group said the 26th Nigerian Economic Summit, with the theme ‘Building Partnerships for Resilience’, would be held in October. It said, “The summit will convene national and global policy makers, business leaders, development partners and scholars to lead and participate in sessions that will focus on building strategic partnerships and cooperation between governments, businesses and the civil society for resilience. “Discussions at NES #26 will be anchored on three pillars – collaboration, execution and impact – and dimensioned across five sub-themes: mapping the future; new trends, new opportunities, new horizons; embracing technology and innovation; building resilience and charting the path to recovery. “NES#26 will be a ‘Big Conversation for Action’ that combines in-person and virtual dialogues for public and private sector stakeholders to reflect on the state of the Nigerian economy and rethink the country’s economic fundamentals.” According to the statement, the summit will explore emerging trends so that Nigeria can capitalise on new opportunities and chart a path to rapid recovery, highlighting the role of states as the frontiers for a resilient Nigerian economy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 