What is your educational background? I studied Business Administration in Covenant University Do you have any corporate work experience? I worked with an outdoor advertising firm called Regno Media Limited from November 2011 to June 2017 What is your business about? HelpMe Nigeria is a foremost facility services firm that operates fully in Lagos State and partially in Abuja, Nigeria. We render services such as professional cleaning, pest control and laundry services with more home services to come. With over 700 services rendered in just two years, I’d say our major area of concentration is cleaning and pest control services. We have been in existence for three years; however, we became fully operational in 2018. What motivated you to start your own business? Firstly, I’m very passionate about starting and running businesses and HelpMe happens to be just one of my businesses. However, I started HelpMe with the passion to help the lower-class members of society by providing a source of income for them and teaching them how to fish. You will that find those that render services under our platform are now able to live better, feed better and just generally have a better outlook on life. This also helps in bridging the poverty gap in the society. Secondly, it was to correct the mindset of most people in our society who think facility services can only be afforded by the rich. At HelpMe, our services are very pocket friendly, yet still as professionally delivered as can be. What are your most significant accomplishments as a housekeeper? Our most significant accomplishment in the housekeeping sector is that we have zero theft rate in our organisation and this I’m always very grateful for. Secondly, when we clean houses, the joy on the faces of our clients is the greatest of all achievements. Lastly, we are able to carry out over 700 services in the housekeeping sector without any major ads or sponsors; just by referrals. Those are achievements I think should not be overlooked. What is your definition of a clean house? A clean house is a house that is free of pests, germs, leftovers or junks and no hoarded items. And it should be well organised. How do you handle stress that comes with your job? When I’m stressed, I’ve been advised by my doctor to just take a step back from what that I am doing regardless of how important I might consider it to be. Most times, I stay back home and delegate duties to the workers just to give myself a break and to replenish lost strength. What are the major challenges you’ve faced? The major challenges I’ve faced in the business is lack of appropriate staffing; it’s not easy to manage uneducated people. You need to be extremely patient and I was not when I started. Another major challenge I’ve faced has to do with logistics and movement of equipment and consumables from place to place. What do you consider to be your greatest strengths? My greatest strength will be my extraordinary ability to proffer solutions to challenges in seconds. I love mental work; I’m easily a happy solution provider. What do you consider to be your weakness? My weakness will be my inability to cope with stress and my short attention span. Once I’m not interested in something, I lack the capacity to focus or pay attention to it. How do you get customers? We get clients mostly through referrals and once in a while, through Instagram as well. Do you advertise the business? Yes, we advertise on Instagram at least once or twice a month; however, we are currently working on doing more ads off Instagram, like on radio, major blogs and so on. Is your business registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission? HelpMe Nigeria is registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission with the registration number Rc1400717. How profitable is the business? It is quite profitable. Though you need zero capital to start it, you definitely will need to inject your profit back into the business if you want to stay in the business for a long time. What other skills do you possess? I see myself as an excellent communicator. I possess good time management skills, interpersonal skills, and leadership skills. I can adapt very well to situations and do so much more. Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years? In the next five years, HelpMe Nigeria will be a household name in major cities across the country. We will be the go-to facility service company in at least three of those cities due to our service quality, great pricing and unmatched client service. As for me, I see myself focusing more on my agricultural business because HelpMe Nigeria would be a force to reckon with on its own. I also see myself having my own family and settling into that as well. Considering the fact that most parents want their children to concentrate fully on education, do you think there is any hope for entrepreneurship? Entrepreneurship is the future of Nigeria. Education is great, I mean if not for education I would not be here. However, I see at least 40 per cent of graduates, if not more, taking the entrepreneurial route. Entrepreneurship will save our dear country in the end. Do you have any employees? Yes, I do. Currently I have five full staff members and numerous contractors. What would you say is the most influential factor in your business’ success? The most influential factor in HelpMe Nigeria is God. And I do not say this because of my faith; I say this because it is the truth. Then, my mentor, Mr Bosun Orange, who made sure my business stood on its feet before he passed on. May his soul rest in peace! If you had one piece of advice for someone just starting a business, what would it be? My advice would be to start small, build something, and during the rough times, and focus on the goal. However, make sure your services are top-notch. What are your hobbies and interests? I love solving problems, cooking, talking with loved ones, travelling and starting a new business. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 