Kayode Oyero With the Edo State Governorship Election barely two weeks away, the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, on Wednesday, held a meeting with the All Progressives Congress candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu; and the Peoples Democratic Party candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, in the September 19 poll. The monarch met with the two leading candidates at his palace in Benin City, the state capital, according to a tweet by @OfficialPDPNig. The tweet read, “The Oba of Benin, HRH, Oba Ewuare II, is currently in a crucial meeting with the two leading candidates in the September 19, 2020, guber election in Edo State, @GovernorObaseki and @IzeIyamu4EdoGov at his palace.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that the monarch said he would invite all the candidates participating in the governorship election to his palace to sign a peace pact. This, he had explained, was in an attempt to stem the violence being recorded prior to the governorship election in the state. The election is about two weeks away but the political temperature in the state is heating up, with the players engaging in verbal attacks. The state House of Assembly has also been embroiled in crisis of late with different political camps trying to outdo one another. Obaseki, who is seeking reelection, will face amongst other opponents, Ize-Iyamu, who has the backing of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) as well as the support of APC stalwart, Bola Tinubu; and former APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The governor, who was elected on the platform of the All progressives Congress in 2016, had dumped the party for the PDP following his disqualification from the APC primary election in June. Obaseki and his predecessor, Oshiomhole, have since been at loggerheads. A statement by Obaseki’s Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Crusoe Osagie, after the meeting, quoted the Oba of Benin as saying, “For some time now, Edo State has been in the news politically for the wrong reason as political gladiators have been fighting dirty with their war of words. “Please don’t turn the state into the city of blood. I appeal to the two gladiators and all politicians to ensure peace and stop the shooting and violence in the state. “I want assurances from you people, to me and the people of the state, of a peaceful atmosphere in Edo State. “Your home and families are here, so give peace a chance. We are all afraid that the state will burn to ashes. Please we need peaceful election in the state. I want to see that you are not paying lip service to the traditional throne; the Benin throne is not partisan. “Please communicate this meeting to your foot soldiers that they should stop the shooting and ensure the state is peaceful for all. I want both of you to work together for a peaceful election.”