Dele Ogunyemi, Warri THE Peoples Democratic Party in Delta State has hailed the immediate past governor of the state, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, on his decision to return to the party. The PDP, in a statement signed by the State Publicity Secretary, Dr. Ifeanyi Osuoza, described Uduaghan’s move as “timely and a sort of homecoming”. The statement read in part, “We are excited that our former governor is back home. Politics is about the people. Recent political developments in Nigeria have also shown that power and relevance comes from the people. “The Uduaghan we know is not unmindful of this fact; this is in addition to the fast-changing political atmosphere in the country. “As a political party, we fully appreciate the fact that his return journey back home may also not be unconnected with the desire to be reunited with his friends, political soul mates and supporters.” “However, it is gratifying to note that our great party is again making deep and appreciable inroads into the political space. Our inclusive politics, consensus building disposition, egalitarianism, good governance records, patriotism and all the qualities that distinguish us from others, are already speaking for us. “Therefore, we are very happy to welcome our former governor and all the returning Party members back into our fold. We also welcome new members and we promise to be fair to all as we prepare to rebuild our battered country.” But the Delta State chapter of the APC, in a swift reaction on Monday, declared that the party “is not losing sleep over the defection of Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan to the PDP. In a statement signed by its state Publicity Secretary, Sylvester Imonina, the APC remarked that Uduaghan came to APC a loner and left same way, but urged the former governor “not to forget how APC gave him shelter when PDP abandoned him in the cold.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 