Another batch of 27 stranded Nigerian girls evacuated from Lebanon by the Federal Government and the Lebanese Government as well as its community in Nigeria arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja on Sunday. Receiving them, Ferdinand Nwonye, Spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who represented the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, said the evacuation was in fulfillment of FG’s promise to ensure no Nigerian is left stranded in Lebanon. There have been several pleas from Nigerians stranded in Lebanon for assistance to enable them to return home. Nwonye said FG was aware of the unfortunate situation they experienced in Lebanon, hence the collaboration to ensure their safe return to the country. Addressing the girls on Sunday, the spokesperson said, “I am here on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs who facilitated this return, together with the Ministry of Aviation, Embassy of Nigeria in Beirut, the Lebanese Embassy in Nigeria and the Lebanese community in Nigeria. “These are the individuals and institutions that made it possible for you to be here today. “It is unfortunate the situation you passed through; which is why the ministries concerned made sure you are here today and we are telling you that you are now home today and nothing will happen to you. “Make sure you follow the protocols they advised you on; you know what to do to recover your passports again. “You are welcome back home and I wish you journey mercies to your various destinations.” The Foreign Affairs Ministry spokesman told newsmen that the stranded Nigerians were evacuated in line with the FG’s guidelines on COVID-19 evacuations. He said the girls tested negative for COVID-19 before embarking on the journey and would be allowed to go home after 14 days of self-isolation. He explained that their passports were retrieved from them upon arrival and they are expected to collect them back with proof of COVID-19 tests which they are expected to take again once they complete their 14-day self-isolation. (NAN)