Johnson Okafor The Central Securities Clearing System Plc, through its cyber security advocacy, sensitised financial market participants on Monday on rising rate of cybercrime. During a webinar organised by CSCS, financial market stakeholders, including bankers and capital market operators, dialogued on innovative measures for preventing cybercrimes, and the need for increased campaign and exigency of collaborative investments to curb the rising rate of cybercrime. CSCS said in a statement that the event was lauded for its timeliness, as COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant remote connections might have increased cyber-security risks in many organisations, with rising exposure of financial services institutions in Nigeria and the broader African continent. Speaking at the event, the Chief Executive Officer, CSCS Plc, Mr Haruna Jalo-Waziri, said, “Cyber security is a collective effort and everyone must play their role to preserve the integrity and sanctity of the financial market. “The pandemic and its attendant remote connections occasioned by business continuity and work-from-home protocols have increased exposures to cyber-security risks and some businesses may have suffered colossal losses due to cyberattacks since the pandemic. “More than ever, cyberattacks are like a double whammy at this challenging time when businesses are re-strategizing to adapt to the new normal and ensure sustainability.” The Chief Strategy Officer, CSCS, Mr Femi Onifade, said, “A breach on any market participant’s network may inadvertently expose the entire system, thus reinforcing why we must collaborate to prevent any vulnerabilities in the financial system.” He said all participants and stakeholders must take active and effective measures in ensuring and sustaining cyber-resilience.” The Chief Information Security Officer, GTBank Plc, Mr Bharat Soni, said a new work culture had expanded remote activities and cloud capabilities to an unprecedented level, thereby making businesses more vulnerable to cyber-attacks such as online scams and phishing, disruptive malware and malicious domains. He said, “Hence, the use of strong authentication for accessing networks would no longer be an option but a necessity. “Awareness of the new realities of safe cyber practices need to be communicated to employees, partners and customers so that they can remain aware of the evolving cyber threat and how to best protect themselves and their organisations.” The Chief Information Security Officer, Interswitch Limited, Mr Ikechukwu Ugoji, said, “Over 90 per cent of cyber breaches are facilitated by phishing email or social engineering attack and that every employee is a first-line of defence against incoming threats. “Employees must be made to understand their vital roles and responsibility in protecting the organisation.” The Divisional Head, Technology and Innovations, CSCS, Mr Tobe Nnadozie, said, “The pattern of spend on cyber security shows clearly that organisations are making relevant investments to protect their systems and broader market, albeit sadly, lack of vigilance is the leading cause of breaches.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  