Peter Dada The Peoples Democratic Party officially flagged off its campaign amid fanfare in Akure, the state capital, on Saturday. This is part of its preparations for the October 10 governorship election in the state. At the event, which held at the MKO Abiola Democracy Park, the party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, declared that the PDP would win the election as he warned against rigging. He said, “Do not vote for APC, do not allow APC to rig the election. If APC rigs this election, they will face the wrath of God. The only thing Akeredolu is relying upon is to rig the election because he has not performed. “Make sure you vote out the government that has turned Ondo State to family business, let Buhari know that the only thing left for him is to conduct free and fair elections in Edo and Ondo states.” The party’s candidate in the election, Mr Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), urged the people to vote for the PDP, saying he would liberate the state if elected as the next governor of the state. After receiving the flag of the party from the national chairman, Jegede who was also the candidate of the party in 2016 governorship election, said, “There will be a new face of Ondo State after I have been sworn in February 2021.” Present at the event were governors of Oyo and Sokoto states, Mr Seyi Makinde and Aminu Tambuwal respectively; former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola and former governor of Ekiti State, Mr Segun Oni, among others. Meanwhile, the spokesperson for the Akeredolu /Aiyedatiwa Campaign Organisation, Mr Olabode Olatunde, on Saturday accused the PDP of importing thugs into the state to destroy the campaign billboards and posters of the APC candidate in the election and governor of the state, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu. In a statement titled ‘Ondo PDP thugs, imported thugs, security from Oyo State destroy APC billboards, posters in Akure’, Olatunde described the act as crude and barbaric. “We are petrified with consternation at the crude manner in which our campaign billboards, banners and posters which have been erected for over three weeks were destroyed at Ilesha garage, MKO Abiola Democracy Park and other strategic areas in Akure by the PDP thugs,” he added. In his reaction, the Head, Media Research of the Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation, Mr Samuel Fasua, denied the allegation, saying, “All PDP supporters are celebrating. No cause for any disruptive tendency. “If the allegation of destruction of posters and billboards is coming from the APC, it only means they are being chased by their shadows. The APC is noted for thuggery and attacks, not us.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com