Lara Adejoro Early in May, the life of Sylvester Okey might have been saved if hospitals that should treat him had attended to him before his death. Okey, whose dream was to become a big-time reality TV star, had his life cut short because hospitals kept referring him, according to his sister, a Nigerian female artiste, Bertha Mary Okey. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, Bertha said, “My brother was ill before the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. “He had suffered from collapsed intestines, but he was treated variously for ulcer and tuberculosis at a popular Lagos hospital (name withheld). “However, when they started seeing symptoms of his eyes being yellow and also because his legs were swelling, we were referred to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba. “I drove down with my brother to LUTH and we went straight to the emergency unit, but someone came to meet us in the car to tell us that there was no bed space. “We were subsequently referred to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. “LASUTH did not attend to us, even when we pleaded that it was an emergency. After all, it’s not everybody that is sick that is a COVID-19 patient, but they told us that he had to first run a COVID-19 test.” Bertha said she drove from the mainland Ikeja to Lekki on the Island — a journey of improbable hours when the Lagos chaotic traffic jam is factored into the picture. Continuing, she said, “We went to the COVID-19 sampling centre at Ikota Primary School in Lekki, last week, but we were told that we could not drive in. “My sick brother was to walk into the centre by himself. We told them that it was an emergency, but they told us they could not do anything beyond taking his blood sample. “They also said they were not sure of when the test result will be out, even when I explained that we needed the result for him to be admitted to a hospital. “Eventually, we didn’t do the test because they didn’t want to attend to us. Besides, I was like, ‘What was even the point of taking his blood sample when they don’t know when the result will be ready, even when we told them it was an emergency?’ “The last hospital we went to on Monday was somewhere in Ogombo, still on the island, where the doctor refused to attend to us till we left. He lied to his Managing Director in our presence that he had checked and cleared us.” Bertha said the various rejections her brother suffered were mainly because the hospitals suspected he was a COVID-19 case. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com