Friday Olokor, Abuja Pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has recommended the adoption of the reports of the 2014 national conference and the restructuring of the country’s political structure as the basis for “a meaningful new constitutional order” for Nigeria. This was at it also called on Nigerians to protest against the recent hike in the pump price of petroleum. The organisation also condemned the Water Resources Bill, describing it as a dangerous bill seeking to “convert waterways to RUGA facilities for the Federal Government.” These were contained in a communiqué issued on Monday by its National Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin, immediately after an online meeting of its national caucus presided over by its leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti. According to Afenifere, the recommendations of the 2014 confab should be an alternative to constitution review which, it said, “has become a ritual every four years without tangible progress.” The communiqué reads in part, “The meeting also discussed the Water Resources Bill rejected by the 8th National Assembly which has been revived surreptitiously by the House of Representatives and concluded that a dangerous agenda is being pursued by the executive in wanting to subvert the Land Use Act in the constitution that vests lands in the state governors. “The bill is so dangerous as it seeks to convert waterways to RUGA facilities for the Federal Government. The bill seeks to give 18km after river banks to the Federal Government when in a state like Lagos you hardly can go beyond a kilometre of any river before meeting residential buildings. We ask that the bill be dropped immediately except there is an agenda to divide the country being pursued frenetically. “The meeting considered the recent increases in the prices of petroleum products and electricity as the most insensitive policies against a people being ravaged by a pandemic without adequate support from their government. To ask Nigerians to pay more for these facilities is wicked and inhumane. We call on the people to use all constitutional and peaceful means to resist and reject the hikes.” Afenifere also described as a gaffe, the suggestion that the southern-western states joint security outfit, Amotekun, should operate under the Nigeria Police Force. Meanwhile, the Yoruba group hailed the late former US Ambassador to Nigeria, Walter Carrington as “the quintessential Ambassador in our June 12 years who gave all in support of our struggle.” The Afenifere also congratulated Dr Akinwumi Adesina “for emerging overwhelmingly victorious in his bid for second term as African Development Bank President.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  