Adelani Adepegba  and Adeyinka Adedipe The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has deployed the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of Research and Planning, Adeleye Oyabade, to supervise the general security arrangement for the Edo State governorship election holding on September 19. Oyabade is expected to be assisted by an Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Federal Operations at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, Karma Hosea, and eight commissioners of police. The DIG, with the assistance of the AIG, will superintend over the security architecture and ensure effective monitoring of the election and due enforcement of all electoral laws in the state. A statement on Saturday by the force spokesman, DCP Frank Mba, said the CPs included Garba Umar, Habu Sani and Buba Sanusi. The statement said CP Akeera Yonous would coordinate the operations of the Police Mobile Force and other special strike forces. It added, “The other four CPs will supervise security arrangement in the three senatorial districts of the state. They are CPs Omololu Bishi, Abutu Yaro (Edo North Senatorial District), Philip Ogbadu (Edo Central) and Olokade Olawale (Edo South).” Meanwhile, the IG has barred security aides attached to very important personalities and political appointees from accompanying their principals on Election Day. Adamu warned that anyone who flouted this order “will be severely reprimanded.” He also charged the officers and men on election duties in the state to ensure they worked in line with best practices and adhered strictly with the approved code of conduct and rules of engagement for the elections. He called on members of the public, particularly politicians, candidates and other relevant stakeholders in the state, to cooperate with the police and other security agencies “in the patriotic task of guaranteeing a hitch-free governorship poll.” Edo police pledge to protect lives, property The Edo State Police Command has assured that the police are ready to protect lives and property during the governorship election in the state on September 19. The command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Chidi Nwabuzor, told Saturday PUNCH that it was well prepared, able and ready to discharge its duties as stipulated by law during the election. Nwabuzor also noted that the command was working with other sister agencies to ensure the safety of lives and property as well as protect the process of the election. He said, “We are not working alone. Apart from the Edo State Police Command personnel, we are also receiving police officers from other commands, including the Force Headquarters in Abuja. We are also working with personnel of the Police Mobile Command and officers of the counter-terrorism unit. “The state police command is also working with other sister security agencies such as the Nigeria Army, the Air Force, the Department of State Services, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, the Nigeria Immigration Service, customs, the correctional service and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency.” The PPRO noted that the Independent Electoral Commission had set up an Inter-agency Consultative Committee on the Election, with the Commissioner of Police, Kokumo Balogun, as the co-chair. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com