African Consumer Care Limited is a subsidiary of Dabur International Limited, which is the International business division of Dabur India, world’s largest Ayurveda or Natural Healthcare Company. With an overall turnover of over US$ 1 Billion and a market capitalization of ~US$ 11 Billion, Dabur’s International Business Division in Dubai, UAE is the cornerstone of its growth strategy, delivering outstanding growth year on year. In Nigeria, African Consumer Care Limited (AFCC) is one of the most trusted and reputed manufacturing companies, which has been successfully operating its business in Nigeria for last 18 (Eighteen) years. Dabur Herbal Toothpaste, Odomos, Sani Fresh, Odonil, Medimax and ORS Olive Oils are brand names, trusted by Millions of Nigerian Consumers. African Consumer Care Limited has launched Dazzl shield disinfectant to make an entry into the Nigerian fast-growing disinfectant market. Dabur’s entry into Nigerian Surface Care market was unleashed through the recent launch of Dazzl Disinfectant Floor Cleaners. The product is an All Surface Cleaner + Disinfectant with 99.9% Germ Kill Claim. The launch comes during a time when the demand for disinfectant household solutions are surging in Nigeria as      COVID-19 health protocols requiring regular washing and disinfecting to curb the spread of the virus. Dazzl can be used on Surfaces like Mosaic,  Granite, Marble, Marbonite, Kota and Vitro Ceramic to remove 99.9% Germs, dirt and grimes. What else? It also comes with long lasting floral fragrance that keeps the environment smelling fresh. Dazzl is now available in all key Hypermarkets, Supermarkets, Open markets as well in retail outlets across PAN Nigeria in 500ml, 1 Litre pack sizes. For institution/heavy users, it is also available in a large 4.5 Litre pack size. The launch was supported by Open Market Consumer Engagements in Lagos, which included Brand detailing by the DJ, Anchor and brand Ambassadors,  Live Floor cleaning Demo with Dazzl Disinfectant, Free Sampling, Quiz and Q&A. Mr. Venkat R Reddy, Head of Business AFCC/Dabur West Africa mentioned in an event in Lagos Oke Arin market that Dabur is committed to bring New Innovation evaluating the relevance and local Consumer needs. Dazzl being a Disinfectant floor cleaner will also support the initiatives of the Federal and State Governments as well as the local communities for their current Fight against Covid-19 situation. The programs were also attended Mr. Mahbub Baset, Head of Marketing, Dabur Sub-Sahara Africa, Mr. Olasunkanmi, ASM Lagos, Ms. Rosemary Nnaji Brand Executive. 