Peter Dada, Akure One person, identified as Taye, has been killed and many injured during a fight between supporters of the All Progressives Congress and the Zenith Labour Party in Idanre town in the Idanre Local Government Area of Ondo State. In the incident that occurred on Wednesday evening, it was alleged that the APC supporters first attacked the ZLP members at a joint in the town, while the ZLP supporters retaliated. The Chairman of the ZLP in Idanre LGA, Mr Ademehintoye Claudus, alleged that the attackers were sponsored by the chieftains of the APC in the local government. He said, “Taye was killed by the APC thugs because he was canvassing support for the ZLP being a member of our party. And what happened has also confirmed that the APC is calling for war in this election because they have been attacking us. “In fact, the party has broken the peace accord reached at the palace of the monarch of Idanre with other political parties.” But the state Publicity Secretary of the APC, denied the attack, calling on the security agencies to investigate the matter. “We are law abiding party. It was the ZLP people that are tearing the posters of Akeredolu in the area; that is where the fight started. But we hope that the security agencies will do their work to nip it in the bud.” Also, members of the Peoples Democratic Party in the council have written a petition to the Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, calling for the investigation, arrest and prosecution of those behind various attacks in the community. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Teo-Leo Ikoro, said the incident was a political clash and the investigation had commenced into the matter. Ikoro said, “A detachment of policemen has been sent to the town to maintain law and order. Investigation in the incident has commenced with intention to arrest culprits involved in the incident.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 