With the collaboration of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Gombe Zonal office, 26 people were arrested and handed over to the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control for prosecution. One of the suspects, Theophilus Sam, told newsmen that he had also been consuming the oil for the past eight years and that, so far, he has not experienced any negative effects from it. Why we add colour to palm oil —Suspect Speaking to newsmen, Sam said, “We were caught at the shop as we were turning oil. We were accused of putting colour into our oil. “I have to say the truth: there is something reddish we put into our oil just to make it red, but it is not in all oil that we put it. In fact that is the same oil we consume at home. “We usually put it in agric palm oil; it is  usually yellowish in colour. We put the colour so that we can get patronage. If it is not red, they won’t buy. We don’t put the colour to increase quantity but to get patronage,” he said. Palm oil, an edible oil and an important ingredient in the diets of many Nigerians, is obtained from the fleshy mesocarp of the fruit of the oil palm (Elaeis guineensis), and it is grown commercially in Africa, South America, Southeast Asia, and the South Pacific, and on a small scale in other tropical areas. Despite being commonly used, experts say that a large quantity of palm oil being sold in the open market is adulterated, poorly stored, and likely to result in grave health consequences if eaten. Processing method A Fellow of African Science Literacy Network and a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Chemistry at the University of Lagos, Dr. Temilola Oluseyi, said the quality of palm oil is influenced by the method of processing. Oluseyi, who is an expert in analytical chemistry and environmental health, said the scale of operations differs from the level of processing and that this affects the quality of the final product. Quoting literature and other researches, Oluseyi said, “It has been shown that the free fatty acid content of palm oil is determined by two factors. “The first and major factor is the length of storage of the fruits used to process the palm oil. “The second factor is the length of storage of the oil after processing. Oil processed from the fresh fruits has very low initial free fatty acid [FFA] content, compared with those from fruits that had been stored for several days or weeks. “Results from previous researches have also shown that the high quality palm oils, that is those with very low FFA content, contain microbes and they eventually lose their quality with increase in the microbial load as the length of storage of the palm oil increases.” Oluseyi said the chemical and physical properties of palm oil are determined by these free fatty acid contents. “The free fatty acid of palm oil has an even balance of saturated and unsaturated portions and this confers some stability against oxidation to the oil as compared to other vegetable oils,” she added. She said the quality of palm oil is determined by many factors such as weather, soil, harvesting condition, storage and process of extraction. “Unfortunately, palm oil is subject to deterioration, the consequence of which is harmful to health;” lamenting that “The quality of palm oil sold in many Nigerian markets has been a source of concern for many years.” Harmful effects Vs nutritional value Experts say there had been speculations that the potential harmful effects of unrefined traditionally processed palm oil could outweigh its nutritional benefits since the oil could contain some components that enhance numerous reactions involved in the degradation of the product. “Microbial contamination may occur during handling, leading to changes in the quality and chemical composition,” Oluseyi warned. Oluseyi further revealed that  merchants in palm oil business store their products for a very long time as they await rise in prices, noting that under such circumstances, nutritional values may be lost. She said, “The high nutritional value, especially its high oil content, greatly predisposes it to deterioration. “The quality of palm fruits, processing techniques, handling and storage are critical points to be considered in the production of quality palm oil. “This is in a bid to minimise the mould load, free fatty acids, aflatoxin B1 contents, moisture content and other anti-nutritional and deteriorating factors as their presence, especially in high values exceeding permissible levels, reduces quality which are undesirable and hazardous to health of consumers.” To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com