Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The Nigeria-Ghana Business Council and the Nigeria Union of Traders Association Ghana have commended the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, for his intervention in the trade dispute with the government of Ghana. A statement issued on Tuesday by the Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, said the traders wrote a ‘thank you’ letter to Gbajabiamila. The statement was titled, ‘Nigeria-Ghana group, traders laud Gbajabiamila over intervention in trade dispute’. The President of the Nigeria-Ghana Business Council, Bambo Ademiluyi, in the letter dated September 5, 2020, said Gbajabiamila’s visit to Ghana had a positive impact and had paved the way for an amicable resolution of the trade dispute. Ademiluyi said, “It is on record that your trip brought about the highest involvement of both governments in this dispute that has been on since 2007. “Your proposals and presentations have given rise to two very vital solutions to the problem: One, the review of the GIPC Act, demanding $1,000,000 deposit for foreign investors in Ghana as it concerns Nigerians; and two, the promotion of the Nigeria-Ghana Business Council backed by legislation to superintend on trade and business issues between the two countries.” The statement quoted Ademiluyi to have also said formation of the business council, as proposed by the Speaker, was a welcome development. He added, “Our objectives and activities align with the proposal which is being introduced to superintend trade issues of the two countries. It is, therefore, our wish to express support for the formation of this council and request that we work with your team to see to a successful emergence of a government-backed business council.” On their part, members of NUTAG, in a separate letter by its President, Chukwuemeka Nnaji, dated September 6, 2020, said Gbajabiamila’s visit was a testimony that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the Federal Government had the interest of Nigerians at home and abroad at heart. Nnaji, however, stated that a lot of Nigerian traders in Ghana were finding things difficult as their means of livelihood had been shut down. The traders appealed to the Nigerian government to engage with the Ghanaian government to reopen the affected shops pending when an enduring solution to the impasse would be found. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  