Dele Ogunyemi, Warri A motorcyclist was crushed to death, while his female passenger sustained life threatening injuries on Monday when a motorist rammed into a commercial motorcycle in the New Farm area of Oton, Sapele, Delta State. Sources said the crash occurred around 8am when the Mercedes-Benz GLK SUV without number plate and being driven by a young man rammed into the motorcycle. The Okada rider, said to be in his late 30s, reportedly died on the spot, while his passenger was rushed to hospital for treatment. The motorist was said have purchased the vehicle last week and it had yet to be registered before the crash. He was said to have rushed the injured woman, believed to be going to the farm, to a nearby hospital in Sapele in a tricycle. Eyewitnesses, however, expressed uncertainty about the woman’s survival due to the extent of her injuries. Some residents of the area narrated that the deceased picked up the woman around the Gana Market area before the vehicle rammed into them from behind. One of the eyewitnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told journalists that he witnessed the crash as it occurred. He said, “The accident happened right in my presence. The driver of the Mercedes-Benz GLK was on speed and crashed into the Okada man and the passenger he was carrying to the farm from behind. “The Okada man died on the spot, while the driver rushed the seriously injured passenger to hospital. I doubt if the woman would make it except by the grace of God”. An official of the Federal Road Safety Commission in Sapele, who confirmed the incident, said operatives had recovered the car and the damaged motorcycle from the scene of the crash. The FRSC official, who spoke on condition of anonymity as he was not authorised to speak to journalists, added that personnel of the corps also evacuated the remains of the motorcyclist to the Sapele Central Hospital’s morgue. When contacted, the Police Public Relation Officer in the state, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed the crash, saying “It was fatal. Someone died, but I have yet to get the full report.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 