Temiloluwa O’Peters The Ogun State government has commenced training of Small and Medium Enterprises to address challenges inhibiting small businesses when bidding for government procurements and contracts. A statement issued on Wednesday by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment press officers, Wale Osunbiyi and Ismail Oladipo, said this was through a webinar training organised by the ministry in collaboration with the state’s Ministry of Budget and Planning. Speaking during the webinar, the Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Kikelomo Longe, said the training acquainted SMEs on the modus operandi of bidding for government contracts and would enhance their chances of winning such contracts. Longe explained that small businesses could win contracts from the government if necessary guidelines were followed, contrary to the wrong perception that the contracts could only be won by large companies. She assured that the training would enlighten the SMEs and address the challenges hindering their ability to effectively bid and win government contracts. “These guidelines seek to address the challenges inhibiting SMEs’ ability to take advantage of government procurements/contracts, by providing solutions accordingly, which will help guide SMEs to avoid common errors being made in bidding,” she said. The commissioner called on various Business Membership Organisations to synergise with the present administration, by organising more workshops to educate their members on all aspects of the Ogun State Public Procurement Act, 2020. The Commissioner for Budget and Planning, Olaolu Olabimtan, stated that the present administration remained focused on ensuring contracts were awarded based on global best practices. He said the administration made sure successfully bidding for contracts was not based on party membership or any form of government patronage. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Olu-Ola Aikulola, called on SMEs to make good use of the opportunity by learning and applying strategies that would improve their chances of winning government contracts. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com