Temiloluwa O’Peters A business growth executive, Stjepan Udovicic, has been appointed as the Chief Commercial Officer of 9mobile. A statement issued by the company on Sunday said he was appointed by the Board of Directors of Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services Limited, trading as 9mobile. The company said Udovicic had a profound understanding of telecom, content and media industries, and embedded and surrounding technology environments and business models. According to the statement, he had worked in the telecoms, technology and service sectors in Asia, Europe, and the USA. It said Udovicic was experienced in driving growth across all market segments and was bringing onboard his competence and grasp of general businesses across industries. Part of his responsibilities at 9mobile would be to lead the marketing, products, sales, distribution, customer services, and digital front-ends. He would also be responsible for brand evolution and development as the company continues to expand and retool for growth. The statement said, “Udovicic led various multinational teams in Cambodia, Croatia, Indonesia, Slovenia, Romania, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and the USA. “He had also worked with Etisalat as Customer Experience Director, spending time in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UAE. “ Commenting on Udovicic’s appointment, Chief Executive Officer of 9mobile, Alan Sinfield, said the company was happy to welcome him into its fold, especially with his wealth of experience. “Stjepan is a thoroughbred professional with a can-do spirit which is at the core of who we are at 9mobile,” he said. Sinfield expressed his confidence that Udovicic would play a significant role in further strengthening 9mobile’s market position in Nigeria’s competitive telecommunications industry. Udovicic said he was delighted to join 9mobile and was looking forward to accelerating further access to quality products and services for telecoms subscribers in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  