Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin Over 300 Christian leaders from the 18 local government areas of the state have thrown their weight behind the second term bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party. The religious leaders under the aegis of Kingdom Minded Ministers Association (KMMA) noted that the Christian community in Edo State was inspired by the sincerity and passion of the governor in ensuring human and infrastructural development in the state. President of KMMA, Rev. Dr. Sharp Okoro, who spoke in Benin City on Thursday at an event to endorse the governor, said, “We specially took note of the fact that you are not a noise making governor, rather you chose to let your work speak for you. The church particularly appreciates the elimination of land speculators/touts that thrive through the oppression and exploitation of hardworking residents of Edo State, thus scaring away would-be investors.” In his remark, Obaseki said, “The only thing that bothers me now is that my covenant with God should not be broken. I do not want to be elected for a second term as governor with the blood of anyone in my hands. I am calling on you to help me pray that in the September 19, 2020 election, we should not lose any soul in the state.” Meanwhile, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the September 19 governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu has assured workers of his willingness, accessibility, transparency, commitment and respect for the workforce. He said he was poised to institutionalise a better civil service, improve the welfare of workers, and engage them in more training home and abroad to develop their skills.” Addressing the state’s workforce during a meeting with Edo workers under the aegis of Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress in Benin, he said, “I believe that in making Edo move forward, government must invest in its workforce, we need to bring more people into the civil service and appreciated some retired workers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 