The Kogi State Government has petitioned the United States on its visa restrictions for unnamed individuals responsible for undermining the Nigerian democratic process or for organising election-related violence. The state government letter, KGS/GO/ADM/25/II/XXX, dated September 16, 2020 and signed by the Secretary to the Government of Kogi State, Mrs Folashade Ayoade, was addressed to the US Ambassador to Nigeria. Ayoade’s acknowledged copy of the letter received by the Embassy on September 17 was made available to newsmen in Abuja on Friday, the News Agency of Nigeria reports. The letter was directed by the state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello. The US government had issued notice of visa restrictions to unnamed individuals responsible for undermining Nigerian democratic process or for organising election-related violence. It said the visa restriction covered from the 2019 general elections in Nigeria through the off-cycle November 2019 gubernorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states to the coming governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states. The US Department of State emphasised that the fresh actions announced were specific to certain individuals and not directed at the Nigerian people. It stated that the decision reflected the Department of State’s commitment to working with the Nigerian government to realise its expressed commitment to end corruption and strengthen democracy, accountability and respect for human rights. Ayoade in the letter said, “Please note that for the purposes of this protest letter, we are only interested in the citations to the extent that they are referable to Kogi State and her citizens. “For the most part, we concede that elections in Nigeria are complex affairs which will continue to require improvements for the foreseeable future. “The 2019 Kogi State Gubernatorial Election was also not without its challenges. “However, it is also crystal clear from critical and composite analyses of the records (official, media, observers, etc) of the November 16, 2019 polls that regrettable incidents were limited to a few polling units.’’ The Kogi government, however, said that the overwhelmingly larger portions of the ballot were free, fair and credible.