Dayo Ojerinde A group under the aegis of Non-Communicable Diseases Alliance Nigeria on Tuesday said non-communicable diseases account for 29 per cent deaths in Nigeria. The President of the group, Dr Sonny Kuku, said this at the flag off of the Third Global Week for Action on NCDs in the country. He said, “Non-communicable Diseases are the cause of 70 per cent of deaths globally, many of them are preventable and also carry heavy economic burden for countries, communities and families. Both the health and economic burdens of NCDs fall heaviest on low-and middle-income countries including Nigeria, making NCDs a major global health and developmental issue. “However, NCDs have been overlooked by governments, but since 2015 when the Sustainable Development Goals were adopted, there has been more attention on NCDs. In Nigeria, Non-Communicable Diseases account for 29 per cent deaths in a population of 205,808,201 people.” Kuku said some of the actions taken to control NCDs include the inauguration of the First National Multi-Sectoral Action Plan for Prevention and Control of NCDs (2019-2025) and the publication of the Handbook on Civil Society Organisations in NCDs. The president also said world leaders were committed to a one-third reduction in deaths between 30 and 70 years of age from four key NCDs; cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, and diabetes-by the year 2030. “Other commitments to address NCDs and the risk factors (unhealthy diets, lack of physical activity, and alcohol and tobacco use)- have been made at subsequent UN meetings of Heads of States in recent years. “Since 2018, mental health and air pollution have been recognised as major global risk factors, while in Nigeria, Sickle Cell Disease is a major risk factor for NCDs. “In spite of plans and commitments stated above, unfortunately, more than half of the world’s countries are likely to miss the targets for SDG 3.4 by the year 2030. Nigeria is a signatory to the Global SDGs. “SDG Three target four seeks to reduce by one third mortality from NCDs through prevention and treatment by 2030, while SDG Three target eight, seeks to achieve Universal Health Coverage,” Kuku said. The Vice President, Scientific Affairs, NCD Alliance Nigeria, Dr Kingsley Akinroye, noted that the government must be accountable to reduce non-communicable diseases-related deaths in Nigeria. He said most of COVID-19 pandemic casualties in Nigeria were people with heart diseases, diabetes, cancer, sickle cells, respiratory disease and even mental health. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  