Johnny Edward Former Super Eagles goalkeepers believe Dele Alampasu’s recall to the senior national team will offer fresh competition for the team’s first-choice position, The PUNCH reports. Eagles coach Gernot Rohr recalled Alampasu for next month’s friendlies against Algeria and Tunisia in Austria, three years after his debut, following strings of impressive performances for his Latvian club, Ventspils. U-17 World Cup and Golden Glove winner at the cadet championship in the UAE in 2013, Alampasu made his senior debut in 2017, coming on as a 70th minute substitution in a 3-0 victory over Togo in a friendly game in France. Alampasu, who joined Ventspils in February has kept three clean sheets and conceded nine goals in 11 games. Ex-Eagles keeper and captain, Peter Rufai, whom Alampasu trained with before he joined Ventspils, described the battle for Eagle’s first-choice position as “very tight.” Ike Shorunmu, Alampasu’s goalkeeper coach at the 2014 African Nations Championship, stated that the 23-year-old had the quality to become the national team’s first choice if he excelled on his return to the squad. “I think Dele has everything to be Eagles No.1,” Shorunmu told The PUNCH. “I have watched him. He has shown great maturity and form, but he has to prove he deserves to be the starter during the training sessions. That’s how it should be, then the coach will decide who will be the starter. “I believe he will offer a good competition for Uzoho and Akpeyi if he excels when he get his chance.” Atlanta ’96 Olympic Games golde medallist Dosu Joseph added, “Alampasu is a good goalkeeper who has proved his talent right from the youth teams. He has been in the Eagles before and I think with his experience and current form he will give the other keepers in the team a ride for their money.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 