Peter Dada, Akure Nigeria Professional Football League side Sunshine Stars on Tuesday unveiled Gbenga Ogunbote as their new manager. It’s Ogunbote’s second spell at the club, having also managed the Akure-based side in 2012, and helping them reach the semi-finals of the CAF Confederation Cup. The Ondo State Football Agency, which oversees the affairs of Sunshine, announced Ogunbote’s appointment at the Ondo State Games Village in Akure, the state capital. Speaking at the event, ODSFA chairman, Tajudeen Akinyemi, said the choice of Ogunbote was due to his vast experience in managing top clubs in the country. Akinyemi added that the main assignment for the coach was to return the team to the continent. He said, “We’ve been trying to get him for some seasons now, even before I was appointed, but luckily for us, we have him here now.” Ogunbote, who managed Lobi Stars last season, is hopeful of helping the club return to their glory days. “When we were here during my first spell, Sunshine Stars were ranked third best in Africa, but the reverse is the case now. We can make it work back,” the former Enyimba manager said. “All hands must be on deck, we can’t do it alone. The management must make funds available at all time, it is the duty of coaches to ensure that they encourage the management to do more. For it to end in praise, we must do our bit. “The first time I came, it would not have been a beautiful one if not for the support I was given. God has used me to give six continental tickets across various clubs in the last eight years.” “The question is what did we do then that is not being done now? We must review all. The secret to failure is to want to please everybody. It’s not just stepping on toes at times, you cut some to be successful.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com