Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin The Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressive Congress are still at loggerheads over allegations that the PDP leadership in Edo State is trying to manipulate the list of party agents for five other political parties at the Independent National Electoral Commission. The disagreement started on Monday with the APC wondering why the PDP was engaging in such an act with 10 days to the September 19 governorship election. The Chairman of Edo APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, said in an interview in Benin on Tuesday, “They have been looting Edo into poverty to furnish this dark plan to rig and foil elections. It is bad enough that the governor has chosen this path of destruction. He is destroying only himself. “He has tried his best to debilitate the state by insulting the Oba, prominent sons and daughters of Edo, the office of the governor, and now the National Youth Service Corps. He now impersonates youths from other states to rig elections. “We condemn this unwholesome development and call on INEC and other bodies with election supervisory mandate to prevail on the emerging rigging style of the PDP. All Edo citizens must be vigilant to quell any attempts to pilfer their mandate.” On his part, the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chris Nehikhare, dismissed the APC’s allegations as baseless. He said “With the way the APC is going, one is beginning to feel sorry for them. They have run out of narratives and now resort to juvenile innuendos. I will not dignify the APC with a response. It is common knowledge that they have no chance of winning the election. “It’s common knowledge that their rigging plans have suffered a devastating setback as Aso Rock has told them that Edo People will determine their fate. Their much taunted federal might is a mirage. Instead of the APC to be drafting a memorable concession speech, they are busy contriving rigging plans for the PDP. His allegations are baseless and should be ignored.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  