Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe and Gbenga Odogun The Nigeria Police Force has concluded plans to arraign the Kogi State Commissioner for Water Resources, Abdulmumuni Danga, for allegedly raping and assaulting a beauty queen, Elizabeth Oyeniyi. PUNCH Metro had reported how the commissioner allegedly assaulted and raped Oyeniyi over a Facebook post Oyeniyi had on March 29, 2020, made a post on her Facebook page about Danga not taking care of his sibling, who was her friend. It was gathered that the post did not go down well with the government official and he allegedly ordered his boys to look for Oyeniyi and beat her up. The victim told PUNCH Metro that after she was beaten by the hoodlums, she was ordered to strip naked and apologise to the commissioner. The 23-year-old added that the commissioner took her to a hotel and raped her. PUNCH Metro learnt that the commissioner would be arraigned alongside one Success Omadivi on seven counts bordering on rape, assault and forgery before a High Court in the Federal Capital Territory. The police in the charge sheet sighted by our correspondents accused Danga of having sexual intercourse with the victim without her consent. The charges read in part, “That you, Abdulmumuni Danga, on March 29, 2020, in Lokoja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, had carnal knowledge of Elizabeth Oyeniyi without her consent, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 1(1)(2)(3) of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, 2015. “That you, Abdulmumuni Danga, with other persons now at large, on March 29, 2020, at Lokoja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did falsify an audio recording purporting same to be the audio of Dr Chinonyerem Welle, Medical Director, Police Hospital, Area 1, Garki, Abuja, saying that she issued a medical report for the rape and assault of Elizabeth Onyeniyi unlawfully; thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 7 of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, 2015. “That you, Abdulmumuni Danga, Success Omadavi, with other persons now at large, on March 29, 2020, at Lokoja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did falsify an audio recording purporting same to be a lady talking to another female, saying that Elizabeth Onyeniyi confessed to her that she was not raped by the defendant, Abdulmumuni Danga, but that it was Natasha that asked her to say she was raped; thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 7 of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, 2015.” Justifying the transfer of the matter to Abuja, one of the officers that investigated the matter at the Gender Unit of the Force Intelligence Bureau, Amaka Okoh, in an affidavit she signed and submitted to the court, stated that if the case was tried in Kogi State, there was a probability that Oyeniyi and other witnesses could be attacked by hoodlums who might want to scuttle the trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  