Adeyinka Adedipe The Edo State Deputy Governor and the Peoples Democratic Party candidate, Philip Shaibu, and the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Gani Audu, on Saturday predicted victory for their respective parties Shaibu, who cast his vote in Ward 11, Unit 5 at 10.32am in Azama Primary School, Jattu, Etsako West Local Government Area, said if what happened at his polling unit took place elsewhere, the election would favour his party. Shaibu said, “I’m in the election to win and that is what I see from my unit.” On the Independent National Electoral Commission’s performance, the deputy governor said, “I did my accreditation and voted within two minutes; so it’s better than the previous elections. “I have not gathered evidence from others, but apart from one particular place in the Orhionmwon LGA, which they said there was a delay, I have not got any negative report yet. “I pray that what I see here is what is happening all over the state. If that is happening all over the state, then the fear of violence is unfounded.” Meanwhile, Audu who cast his vote at Ward 7, unit 13, Ughioli Primary School Aviele, Etsako West LGA, around 11.13am, said he had no doubt  that the APC would win the election. Audu stated, “Edo is an APC state. I don’t have any doubts at all that we will win this election; the APC will win this election at the end of the day. No doubt at all. “The process is okay, I just came, used the card reader, accreditation was done and I’ve voted; very simple. “The turnout is massive. In fact, I am seeing the turnout in this for the first time in the history of elections in this village.” Also, according to Shaibu, his victory at his polling unit shows that money cannot buy the conscience of the people in a true democratic process. He said, “I asked God for victory and I know he will not give me anything less than that. With the results declared so far, I know we will win again, my own is to give glory to God.” “I knew from the outset that God would show his supremacy over human. I am happy because he has never disappointed us.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 