Tony Okafor, Awka A 25-year-old woman, Onyinye Chime, has allegedly killed her lover, Eleyi Azubuike, in Anambra State, for asking her to abort her pregnancy. The incident happened on Ochiagha Street, Nkpor, near Onitsha, in the Idemili Local Government Area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that the deceased had advised Chime to abort the pregnancy, which she objected to. A source told our correspondent that 29-year-old Azubuike also declined to give her money for upkeep. “Onyinye was not comfortable with all these. So, she complained to people about it; but we didn’t know she would act this way. She went to the extreme,” the source added. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident. He said, “There was a report of alleged murder of one Eleyi Azubuike, 29, of Ochiagha Street, Nkpor, in the Idemili North LGA of Anambra State by his girlfriend one Onyinye, 25, of same Ochiagha Street, Nkpor, inside his room. “Police detectives attached to Ogidi division visited the scene and rushed the victim, who was found in a pool of blood, to Iyi Enu Mission Hospital, Ogidi, for medical attention, where he was certified dead by a medical doctor. The corpse was deposited at the hospital’s mortuary for an autopsy. READ ALSO: Police threaten surveyor for reporting extortion to PUNCH “A careful observation of the deceased’s body revealed stab wounds on his chest,  while a bloodstained kitchen knife was recovered as an exhibit at the scene. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the deceased allegedly impregnated the suspect and wanted an abortion, which she declined and demanded some money for her upkeep, which the deceased refused to oblige. “That eventually led to a scuffle which resulted in the man being stabbed to death.” The PPRO said the case was under investigation to unravel other circumstances surrounding the incident. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 