Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government on Tuesday commenced the implementation of the contents of National Fertilser Quality Control Act. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Sabo Nanono, said the NFQC Act was to primarily eliminate sharp practices, including adulteration, in the value chain and boost food security in Nigeria. He disclosed this while declaring open a three-day workshop and meeting with fertiliser operators on the operationalisation of the National Fertiliser Quality Control Act and Regulation. Nanono also announced that his ministry through the Department of Farm Inputs Support Services had established an online portal called the National Fertiliser Management Platform for the registration of fertiliser dealers in Nigeria. He said the initiative would ensure accessibility, transparency and accountability among fertiliser value chain players in order to create sanity in the fertiliser space. On the Fertiliser Control Act, the minister said it would eliminate rampant cases of nutrient deficiencies, adulteration, etc, in fertilisers. He said the Act would also protect the investments of manufacturers, blenders and distributors as well as other service providers along the fertiliser value chain. Nanono said, “It is noteworthy to state here that the primary goal of the fertiliser regulatory system is to increase agricultural productivity for national food security which can only be achieved through the provision of quality fertilisers and other key farm inputs.” The minister told participants that as stipulated in the Act, they would be expected to obtain certificate of registration or sales permits upon payment of some prescribed fees/charges before being allowed to operate any fertiliser business across the country. He stated that in determining the fees, wide consultations with stakeholders were made and a lot of factors put into consideration to reduce cost burden to the farmers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com