Sodiq Oyeleke The Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has urged the Peoples Democratic Party to play issue-based politics. He also warned PDP against spreading misinformation that he was not ready to account for the COVID-19 funds. The governor said this while responding to a request by PDP through its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbodiyan. The PDP had asked Akeredolu to account for the funds donated to the state by corporate organisations and individuals to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic that is currently ravaging the world. It alleged that the governor of “condoning corruption and wicked embezzlement of public funds”. The party alleged that over N700 million intervention fund could not be accounted for, claiming that “Indeed, any clean, transparent and upright administration that had not soiled its hand and which has the interest of the people at heart, would have ordered an open investigation, secure and channel the resources to the wellbeing of the people.” But Akeredolu said he had sent the bank statement of the COVID-19 response funds to an Abuja-based Social Accountability Organisation, Follow The Money International. He urged PDP to consult the organisation for a copy of the statement. Akeredolu said by making the full bank statement available to the public in line with the Freedom of Information Act, he had displayed that his administration has nothing to hide. He also challenged PDP to advise governors elected on its platform to tow his pact. Displaying the response of the Ondo State Government to the organisation who requested the details of the donations and how the funds were expended, Akeredolu also said his administration is rated four out of the 36 states of the federation by the World Bank’s Fiscal Transparency and Sustainability Index. Responding to the PDP through his verified twitter handle, @RotimiAkeredolu, the governor said, “Reach out to @4lowthemoney. We already gave them the entire bank statement. “We are not 4th in the World Bank’s Fiscal Transparency and Sustainability Index for nothing. We have nothing to hide.”