Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has advised Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, to extend his hands of fellowship to the candidate of All Progressives Congress, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, as well as other opponents in the just concluded governorship election in the state. Obasanjo said this in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi, in Abeokuta on Monday. Obaseki was declared winner of Saturday’s Edo State governorship election by the Independent National Electoral Commission after defeating Ize-Iyamu and 12 others. Obasanjo was quoted as saying, “No doubt that the outcome of the election that has taken place so far broadly reflects the choice of the Nigerians who have, by their conduct, visibly demonstrated that they value our present democracy and will do their utmost to make it work. “I urge you, therefore, to reciprocate their trust by doing everything you can, to strengthen their faith in democracy and in its ability to bring about improved material conditions and better service delivery. “I also count on your support of well-meaning Nigerians like me in our quest for national peace, stability and economic development and trust that you will play an active and visible role in our pursuit of these noble and desirable objectives. “You have fought and won the elections and deserve to savour the victory despite all the odds and challenges posed by opposition. As you rejoice, however, I would urge that you should be magnanimous in victory and stretch a hand of fellowship to the other candidates who failed in their bids for the elected office. “Such a gesture is not only charitable but should also help at this time to cool passions in the wider interest of the nation and your State.  You are now, as before, Governor of Edo State and not Governor of only those who voted for you in Edo State.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  