Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has warned against what it termed deliberate plot by the Department of State Services to coerce a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Dr. Obadia Mailafia, into silence over his radio interview comment. SOKAPU also condemned a third invitation extended by the DSS to the ex-CBN official to be honoured on Monday. Mailafia, a native of Southern Kaduna, had said he resigned as a directing staff at the prestigious National Institute of Police and Strategic Studies, Kuru in Jos, Plateau State because of the persistent attacks and killings of his kinsmen by suspected Fulani herdsmen. A statement by the National President of the SOKAPU, Jonathan Asake, on Sunday in Kaduna, warned that nothing untoward must happen to their “illustrious son”. The union said it smelt a rat that since the revelation by the former CBN chief, security operatives, especially the Department of State Services, had been on his trail. The motive of the DSS, the SOKAPU said, was either to harass him or silence Mailafia over his comments. The statement recalled that in the past, there had been prominent people who came up with similar disturbing disclosures, but no such invitation was ever extended to them for questioning. “For instance, officials of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria had in many instances claimed responsibility over deadly attacks on communities, but the response from the security agencies has always remained an embarrassing silence,” it stated. It added, “Amidst the bloodshed and waves of attack that rocked the country in June 2018, the National President of Miyetti Allah Kauta Hore, Alhaji Abdullahi Bello Bodejo, declared in a media interview that Nigeria belongs to the Fulani. “Reacting to Bodejo’s reckless and unguarded statement, the Northern chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria immediately called for his arrest and interrogation, but the DSS played the ostrich and never invited him for questioning till date.” The statement titled, ‘SOKAPU’s Stand on Dr. Obed Mailafia’s invitation by the DSS,’ read in part, “The attention of the leadership of Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has been drawn to yet another invitation extended to the former presidential candidate of the African Democratic Congress, Dr Obadiah Mailafia, to report to the Plateau State office of the Department of State Service (DSS) on Monday September 14, 2020 for yet another session of questioning. “We are worried that this is the third time that the nation’s secret police is inviting Dr Obadiah to appear in its Jos office over a radio interview he granted. It is now undoubtably obvious that these series of summons are aimed at not only intimidating the former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, but also throwing him into an abyss of frightening uncertainties in a bid to force him into silence. “As Dr. Mailafia prepares to honour the third invitation tomorrow, September 14, 2020, SOKAPU wishes to place on record that should any evil be visited on him, the DSS should be held responsible. “SOKAPU calls on men and women of good conscience in Nigeria and the international community to rise up against this apparent dictatorship and stop further persecution of Dr. Mailafia over his audacity to stand up for truth and patriotism. “We call on Nigerian patriots and groups engaged in the battle for a better tomorrow for our nation not to relent but speak up against the deliberate attempt at bullying a voice that has courageously spoken for us all. “We believe that the lives of Southern Kaduna people matter, and there can be no acceptance of this reality than for all to unite and stop further persecution and hounding of Dr. Mailafia for daring to expose the forces that threaten our corporate existence as a nation.”