Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The police in Rivers State have arrested four suspects in connection with the kidnap and murder of a superintendent, Moses Egbede, attached to the Afam Division in the Oyigbo Local Government Area of the state. The state Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, disclosed this on Friday while parading the four-man gang led by 22-year-old Idoroyen Friday before journalists in Port Harcourt. Mukan said the deceased, who was the Afam Divisional Crime Officer, was abducted and tied to a stick at a forest in the Panya area, leading to his death. He stated, “On August 18, 2020, about 9.45am, men of the Anti-Kidnapping Unit led by the commander, in a covert operation arrested Idoroyen Friday, 22, who on interrogation confessed to have carried out the kidnap of the police officer. “His further confession led to the arrest of Isaac Oforji, (aka Angel) 32; Raphael Barivule, 32; and Dumbari Kideeyor, 21. “They all confessed their various roles in the kidnap and killing of the police officer who was tied to a tree in a forest at Panya in Eleme LGA. His body was evacuated and deposited in the mortuary. They are still helping us in our investigation and will be charged to court as soon as investigation is over.” Twenty one other suspects linked to various crimes, including child trafficking and car snatching were paraded. The CP lamented that kidnapping was the major security challenge in the state, noting that cult-related activities had reduced. He added, “Operatives of the Anti-Kidnapping Unit, acting through credible information in the early hours of Wednesday, September 2, arrested one Nwagor Faith, 27, who on interrogation confessed to have kidnapped Sunday Dada, 28; and Joy Chukwu, 43. “They were kidnapped on August 20 at Eliozu in Obio/Akpor. The suspect led the police to where they kept the victims at Gato Housing Estate Rukpokwu Obio/Apor. They were rescued and taken to hospital for medication, while efforts are on to arrest other members of the gang and recover their operational weapons.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  