Dr. Abayomi Ajayi In Vitro Fertilisation  is currently the most effective treatment option for infertility and, though there have been many improvements in the technology being used, there are times when it disappoints. It is undoubtedly a huge disappointment when you undergo an IVF cycle and it fails. It is understandable why you feel so because you have just spent a great deal of time, money, and energy on this whole process and you have been incredibly optimistic that the results would be promising. When an IVF cycle fails, it is not unusual to feel grief, anger and frustration. But you should not blame yourself or your partner because IVF can fail for many reasons, and the chances are that it is completely out of your control. The best thing to do is to talk to your fertility specialist who might be able to explain what may have happened and what steps you need to take next. While the devastation from this is immense, it is not the end of the world and it does not mean that you shouldn’t give it a second or even a third try. Before submitting to the overwhelming impulse to throw in the towel and give up, you need to understand that IVF is not infallible and that a failed cycle does not mean all hope is lost. You may be compelled to look into other options but consider things carefully before changing courses. Consider the facts about your situation to ensure you are making the wisest decision for the future. There are several instances in which IVF is the last resort when every other method has failed and evidence shows that if you are a younger woman, that is below 35, you stand a higher chance of success with IVF. Your success rate if under 35 is about 40 per cent. One of the most common reasons as to why your IVF cycle may fail is due to the quality of your embryos. You could have produced defective embryos that are unable to implant after transfer to your uterus. If there is an embryo transfer involved, the IVF could have failed because of an embryo implantation failure. So it could actually either be due to an issue with the embryos or with the uterus. However, it is believed that in most cases an arrest of the embryos is responsible. This is usually caused by chromosomal or genetic abnormalities within the embryos that make them too weak to allow implantation to take place. Embryos may look healthy in the lab but may have defects that cause them to die rather than grow. Usually when this happens, the problem is with the embryo and not your uterus. As you most likely already know, the age of the female partner can majorly affect the possibility for successful conception. As women age, they start to produce less eggs and the quality of these eggs begins to decline. This will start to happen in the 30’s and the decline increases dramatically at the age of 37 and older. Your age while undergoing IVF plays a huge part, but the age of the eggs that you are using is more important. As you age, the quality and quantity of your eggs begin to worsen. This will greatly affect your chances of pregnancy with and without IVF. On average, around 25 per cent of embryos used in IVF will result in a live birth. Older women are more likely to have a greater chance of IVF success when using donor eggs. Also, occasionally, your ovaries may not respond to the IVF medication as expected and this will cause you to fail to produce multiple eggs. If you are over 37, or you have high follicle-stimulating hormone levels, producing enough eggs may be difficult. If this is the case for you, the chances are high that your IVF may fail. However, by consulting a competent fertility expert, you can be properly evaluated and your chances examined for the best outcomes. Embryos that have chromosomal abnormalities can result in IVF failure, in fact, chromosomal abnormalities are often the reason behind miscarriages and implantation failure during IVF. Women over 30 are more likely to experience chromosomal abnormalities in their eggs, and this increases further when a woman reaches her 40’s. You will probably be asked to quit smoking before the start of your IVF treatment. If you are a smoker, you will likely need up to twice as many IVF cycles to conceive and you’ll be more likely to experience a miscarriage. If you are overweight or underweight, you should try and reach a healthy weight to increase chances of a successful IVF treatment. If you have previously undergone IVF treatment and have been unsuccessful, do not despair, there is hope. Not all of the issues that may get in the way of the success of an IVF cycle can necessarily be corrected, but there are some that can be addressed and change the probability that the next cycle will be successful. For instance, your ovaries respond to the fertility treatment by producing multiple eggs to increase the chances of conception. If, however, you are unable to succeed perhaps because of fewer eggs in reserve than expected, there are options. Your fertility doctor will look over your records and attempt to assess why the cycle failed before your next visit. Ask for an honest analysis of your results and what that means for your chances of success with another IVF cycle. But do not give up. Know that it often takes couples more than one try before they see the results that they are hoping for. Before making any rash decisions, get all of the information that you can on why the treatment failed. If you are uncomfortable with the way your doctor responds when you question his/her reasoning, you should not feel as though you must continue receiving treatment from him/ her. They should be ready and willing to meet with you and help you through this time to figure out the next step that makes the most sense for you. If you do not feel comfortable moving ahead with your current doctor, there is nothing wrong with trying another, but ensure you are making the right choice and not exchanging one challenge for another. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com