In pursuit of its business diversification strategy, Africa Prudential Plc, West Africa’s leading registrar and digital solutions provider company, wishes to announce the appointment of Mrs. Fumbi Chima as an Independent Non-Executive Director, to its Board of Directors.  The appointment is to strengthen the Company, as it commences a digital transformation drive and pivoting from its core registrar business to providing digital solutions and technology services. Fumbi Chima is an accomplished senior executive and Non Executive Director with extensive experience, leading digital transformations within established, global corporations.  Fumbi as a Chief Information Officer & Business Leader, focuses on driving business outcomes through the use of technology and digital solutions, with in-depth experience in global transformational programmes and inspiring an organisation to embrace a new future Prior to joining Adidas as CIO in 2019, Fumbi has been the transformational CIO for several global organizations and was most recently the CIO of Fox Network Group; CIO at Burberry Corporation, CIO of Walmart Stores Inc Asia business operations, and CIO of American Express’ Global Corporate Technologies.   She has a proven track record of successfully partnering with business leaders and building world-class teams. Fumbi has a Bachelor of Arts, Politics and Philosophy, University of Hull, North Humberside, U.K. In addition, she has a post graduate certification in Women Corporate Directorship, Hong Kong University and Executive Leadership Development of Harvard University. Highlights of her career include developing and managing the execution of multi-channel digital strategies that doubled revenue and decreased spending by 23%, creating significant margin expansion.  Within another strategic initiative, Fumbi led a team that divested low-value functions and reinvested in high-value ones that had an impact of several billion dollars in additional incremental annual revenue. Fumbi has both for and non-profit board experience and is a sought-after speaker on topics ranging from the CIO’s role in the executive suite and boardroom, to making digital part of an organization’s culture. She has been recognized as a top leader in STEM, Globalization, and IT. The appointment is effective, September 2, 2020, subject to the approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission. “On behalf of the Board and Management of Africa Prudential Plc, I am pleased to welcome Fumbi to the Board. Fumbi’s track record demonstrates and embodies our company core values of execution, excellence and enterprise, and I remain confident that this well-deserved appointment will further strengthen Africa Prudential Plc’s position as the regional industry leader across board, and in particular, in automation, innovation, investor relations, business support solutions and customer experience,” said Eniola Fadayomi, Chairman, Africa Prudential Plc. ‘I am honoured to accept this new appointment as an Independent Non – Executive Director at Africa Prudential Plc. The Company has been at the forefront of product innovation, within and outside the investor services’ space in Africa and I am committed to working to take Africa Prudential Plc to greater heights,” stated Fumbi Chima, incoming Independent Non – Executive Director, Africa Prudential Plc.