Adebayo Folorunsho-Francis A fertility and reproductive health expert has warned men struggling with low sperm count to avoid using hormonal drugs to suppress the health condition. The term “hormonal drugs” originally applies to substances secreted by various endocrine glands and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. It is, however, sometimes extended to include those substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but have similar effects. In an exclusive interview with PUNCH HealthWise, President, Association for Fertility and Reproductive Health, Dr. Ibrahim Wada, disclosed that in the quest to boost the quality of sperms, it would be unwise for anybody to resort to hormonal medications. “All we are saying is that there is a glimmer of hope for men with low sperm count. Although the chances are low, it is not completely zero. A man with a low sperm count can still be lucky to have the wife conceive. “Sometimes there could be a delay. But there are so many things that could help. In terms of medication, I beg to state that men should not take male hormonal drugs to promote their fertility,” he said. The reproductive health specialist argued that men consuming testosterone-based drugs probably purchase them over the counter because such drugs could not have been recommended by any doctor. “The truth is that they worsen sperm count. There are, however, some injections called ‘gonadotropins’ in some appropriate cases that may help men, so also ‘antioestrogens’ may help in terms of support. “But the choice is made by what the medical person has suggested. They have to know the reason the man is infertile before they can prescribe such medication. Of course, the field of in-vitro fertilization is probably the biggest hope that has come for men with low sperm count,” he said. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 