The Zamfara State faction of the All Progressives Congress loyal to Senator Kabir Marafa has said that the decision of the Mai Mala Buni-led National Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, to sack its chairman would spell doom for the party. State Publicity Secretary of the faction, Alhaji Bello Bakyasuwa said this in an interview in Abuja, on Wednesday. According to him, the decision of the national caretaker committee to empower the faction of the party loyal to the former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdullaziz Yari, to expel members of the Marafa-led faction, was contemptuous of an existing court order. He explained that a court of competent jurisdiction had ordered the dissolution of the state factional executives and called for fresh congresses. Bakyasuwa said, “Are you not aware of the Court ruling that dissolved all the factions and ordered for fresh congresses? Won’t that amount to court contempt? “Anyway, we have not been contacted by anybody, we just saw the papers like you did in the social media. We will react when we are officially contacted.” Asked whether the Marafa faction had withdrawn its case against the party, as directed by the National Executive Committee of the party, Bakyasuwa replied, “As directed by who? When? There was never such communication between us and the National Headquarters or from anybody acting for or on behalf of the Caretaker Committee. “Is it possible for the National Headquarters to ask our opponents to sanction us? Is it possible for the ruling party under President Buhari to abuse the court? “I thought the Caretaker Committee was constituted to address APC problems not to aggravate it. You don’t solve a problem by becoming part of it or taking sides. You solve it by being fair and just. “Taking side at this point will only spell doom for APC in Zamfara and I don’t think the Mai Mala committee will want to risk that.” Secretary of the national caretaker committee of the APC, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, had in a letter dated August 26th 2020, written to the Zamfara State chapter of the party to set up the necessary machinery to invoke the relevant sections of the APC Constitution 2014 (As amended) on Alhaji Sirajo Garba, the chairman of the Marafa-led faction.