The founder of MicCom Cables Company, Michael Ponle (OFR), has advised governments at all levels to explore the potential in the tourism sector to boost the nation’s economy. The elder statesman, who described tourism as a dormant sector in the country, stressed that, if well-developed, the sector has the tendency to uplift the nation’s internally generated revenue, facilitate employment and boost the national image. Ponle, the owner of MicCom Golf and Hotels located in Ada, Osun State, made this known in a statement titled, ‘Tourism, dormant sector that can boost economy – Ponle’. The statement was issued by Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, Special Adviser on Civic Engagement to Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola. Oyintiloye had led a state delegation on a visit to the Ponle’s hometown in Ada. The governor’s aide quoted Ponle as saying, “Tourism is a composite sector which will facilitate good road networks, stable power supply, human development among others in a country and as such, governments must tap into it for the benefit of the commonwealth.” According to Oyintiloye, the industrialist also lauded Oyetola’s strides in all sectors of the state economy, while urging him to use these as springboards to advance tourism development in the state. “Indeed, his effort in developing Osun health sector is commendable as every small community has proximate opportunity to fully equipped health centres without having to travel a long distance like before. “Despite the paucity of funds in the state, Oyetola is wondrously delivering in the infrastructure sector for every community has at least, one road being constructed or fully completed by his administration while security refurbishment, empowerment programs for human capital and social development; and full salary payment and pensions are not left unattended to. “With the painstaking and tenacious efforts expended on the development of those sectors, Oyetola through his focused, dexterous and people-oriented leadership can tap into the tourist attractions and sporting activities in the state for government-people benefits revolving around revenue boost, state projection, employment and other social developments,” the statement concluded.