Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The immediate past Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Mohammed Adoke (SAN), has written his successor, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN), asking him to caution the Federal Government’s lawyer in the ongoing proceedings against Shell and Eni and other named individuals before the Milan Court in Italy over the OPL 245 transactions. Adoke’s letter dated September 10, 2020 is titled, ‘Letter of complaint against the conduct of Mr Lucio Lucia representing the Federal Government of Nigeria in the Milan proceedings against Shell, Eni and other individuals’. The former AGF sought protection by the Federal Government through Malami from what he described as Lucia’s “deliberate false statements” at the Milan court. READ ALSO: JOHESU declares nationwide strike He alleged that Mr Lucio Lucia, during the September 9, 2020 proceedings of the Milan court, made “deliberately false statements” portraying him to have been indicted in the OPL 245 transactions, also referred to as Malabu Oil scam. He also noted that Lucia made “bizarre and unfounded allegations” that he was extradited to Nigeria from Dubai to face corruption charges in relation to the OPL 245 transactions, “knowing fully that nothing of sort ever happened”. He added that “with characteristic audacity, he carelessly reconstructed the evidence on my Mortgage transaction with Unity Bank Plc which is subject of ongoing criminal proceedings in Nigeria to suit his narrative”. He noted that Lucia was allowed to make the claim that he was indicted in the OPL 245 transactions, despite the fact that both Malami, and a former Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, as serving cabinet members, had exonerated him of any wrongdoing in the transactions. He stated that in addition to the clearance by Malami and Kachikwu, there was a subsisting judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja delivered by Justice Binta Nyako, April 13, 2018, which had also declared that he could not be held liable in relation to his involvement in the implementation of settlement agreements on the Malabu Oil transactions in line with lawful presidential directive. He stated, “In the light of the above. I am unable to understand why Mr. Lucio Lucia would be allowed to assert on behalf of the same Federal Government of Nigeria, a position that is contrary to the unassailable declarations in the subsisting judgment of the Federal High Court, Abuja dated April 13, 2018 and the views already expressed by your good self as the sitting Attorney General of the Federation and the former Minister of State, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, on my role with respect to the implementation of OPL 245 Settlement Agreement. “While I am not adverse to the Federal Government Claims before the Milan court, I am however concerned that Mr Lucio Lucia has been allowed to present to the court, deliberate false statements against me in support of the Federal Government’s case. “As a Nigerian. I am not only entitled to the protection of my government. I, therefore, feel compelled to request you to call Mr. Lucio Lucia to order in order to preserve the dignity and respect of your high office as well as prevent my rights from being trampled upon by foreign elements acting in cohort with their Nigerian collaborators. “While awaiting your prompt action and response, please accept Honourable Attorney General of the Federation, the assurances of my high regards and esteem.”