Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has expressed surprise that Nigerians living in Ghana are still facing what he called problems and complications despite the assurances the Federal Government received from the Ghanaian authorities. He said he was sure that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), would also be disturbed by the development. The Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday titled, ‘FG will ensure Nigerian traders in Ghana get justice, Osinbajo assures.’ Akande quoted the vice president as speaking during a meeting with representatives of the Nigerian community in Ghana at the official residence of the Nigerian High Commissioner to Ghana in Accra on Tuesday evening. Recently, many shops belonging to Nigerian traders were shut in Ghana following a $1m levy imposed on them by the government of the West African country. Akande, however, said while responding to the issues raised by leaders of the Nigerian community at the meeting, especially the maltreatment of Nigerians by Ghanaian authorities, Osinbajo reiterated the commitment of the Federal Government to deal with the issues. He quoted the Vice President as saying, “I will certainly convey the depth of your grievances to the President. “I am sure that he will be deeply disturbed to hear that despite the assurances that he had received, (from the Ghanaian government) there are still problems and complications, many of which have been discussed at the highest levels with assurances of resolutions given.” Osinbajo recalled some of the efforts made by the governments of the two countries to resolve the issues. He noted that Buhari had, at a time, met with President Nana Akufo-Addo, with a view to resolving the issues. He said, “What the Ghanaian government pledged to do, on three occasions, was that the shops will be reopened. In fact, I am a bit surprised that it has not taken place because my understanding was that that was going to be done. “So, I think what we need to do aggressively is to follow-up with the Ghanaian government and to see that these things are done.” Osinbajo, however, said the delay in resolving the issues despite the various interventions might be due to bureaucratic bottlenecks. He also urged all the affected traders through their associations and leaders to submit a more detailed letter containing the number of affected shops and other relevant information that would enable the Nigerian government to follow-up with Ghanaian authorities. Osinbajo also urged Nigerians living in Ghana to remain law abiding and embrace peaceful coexistence. The First Vice President of the Nigerian Union of Traders Association, Ghana, Chief Kizito Obiorah, and a publisher of an online medium, Mr Destiny Omon, were said to have taken turns to present copies of their petitions to the vice president before speaking about the numerous challenges faced by Nigerians in Ghana. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com