Johnny Edward Nigerian winger, Victor Solomon-Otabor, says he left Bulgaria after racist fans abused him, Saturday PUNCH reports. Solomon-Otabor, who joined CSKA Sofia last summer in search of a new adventure after seven years at Birmingham City, said he stayed indoors regularly in Sofia to avoid abuse. The 24-year-old has now returned to England seeking a fresh start with League Two club, Wigan Athletic. “One of the reasons why I opted to leave Bulgaria was the constant racist abuse I suffered each time I played in a game and coronavirus was another reason I left too,” Solomon-Otabor told Saturday PUNCH. “I could not understand why someone will want to tear you down because of the colour of your skin. “My family told me to stop reading those (online) comments. ‘Block, delete and move on’. It is easy saying that though, isn’t it? You keep looking. Why did they say that? “They’d always find something to abuse you, which is wrong. “The hardest part is that I’m alone. I’ve not lived in another country before and not feeling too comfortable when being out because of what happened to me on the pitch. That is the most difficult thing. I tend to just keep to myself and stay at home. “I’ve never gone through something like that before, where I did not feel comfortable.” The former Portsmouth forward is hopeful of making his debut for Nigeria soon after being on the bench in the Super Eagles international friendly against Brazil in Singapore last year. “I’m very eager to play. I missed out to get on (against Brazil) because of the unfortunate injury (Francis) Uzoho picked up during the game but thank God he’s fit now and well and the coach said to me I will have my opportunity to play in a game. “My hopes now are just to continue working hard to play and to see what happens. I just want to progress and go higher.” Solomon-Otabor has made three appearances for Wigan this season. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com