Daud Olatunji A 23-year-old man in the Ipokia area of Ogun State, Dansu Asogba, has confessed to the killing of his 60-year-old aunt, Iyabo Dansu, after an herbalist reportedly threatened to invoke the spirit of the deceased against her killer. The Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday. Oyeyemi explained that the suspect was arrested following his confession. According to the PPRO, the suspect was arrested following a report by two children of the deceased who reported at Ipokia Divisional Headquarters. He said, “They reported that they received information on August 22, 2020 about the demise of their mother who was not known to be suffering from any illness. “They stated further that since they were not suspecting any foul play, they decided to bury her without necessarily reporting to the police. “But immediately after the burial, they heard information that the suspect, who is a nephew to the deceased, was seen in her house on that day, and shortly after he left, the woman was declared dead. “This aroused the suspicion of the people of the community and they threatened to carry out a traditional ritual which would expose the killer. On hearing about the intention of the community to go spiritual about the deceased, the suspect Dansu Asogba came out and confessed being responsible for the woman’s death.” Oyeyemi said upon the suspect’s confession, the Divisional Police Officer, Ipokia Division, SP Adebayo Hakeem, detailed policemen to the scene, where he was promptly arrested. On interrogation, the suspect reportedly admitted killing the deceased, claiming that he did so because he believed she was responsible for the death of his first child and a miscarriage suffered by his wife. Oyeyemi added, “He confessed further that it was an iron rod he used to hit the woman on the neck which resulted in her death. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com