Deji Lambo A yet-to-be-identified man lost his life on Monday when the vehicle conveying him and another person collided with a moving train around the PWD area of Oshodi, Lagos State. It was also learnt that the driver of a commercial bus also rammed his vehicle into the same moving train. However, the driver and the passengers survived with minimal injuries. The Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, had said the bus conveying the passengers, suddenly veered onto the tracks and collided with the train. In a follow-up reaction, Oke-Osanyintolu said further investigation revealed that a highlander was also involved in the collision, adding that the impact of the collision killed one of the persons. The second victim, who reportedly sustained serious injuries, was said to have been taken to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital for treatment, adding that the corpse had been deposited in the mortuary. READ ALSO: PDP, APC rain harsh words on gov candidates, deputy Oke-Osanyintolu said, “Additional investigations reveal that a third vehicle, a highlander was also involved in the collision and its passengers, two adult males, sustained serious injuries before being transported to the LASUTH. One of the victims has since lost his life and had been placed in the hospital morgue while the other is still undergoing treatment. “Please recall that the agency received distress calls around 8.12 am on the incident. Upon arrival at the scene, it was discovered that a commercial bus, GGE 972 GE, with six passengers veered onto the train tracks while crossing the rail at PWD inward Oshodi and subsequently collided with a scheduled commuter train. “The bus and the Jeep were then dragged along for a stretch of the journey before the train managed to come to a complete halt. The Agency was able to successfully extricate the passengers and one life was lost. Casualties have been provided with on-site medical care and discharged. A 20-year-old boy that sustained severe injuries was taken to LASUTH for further treatment “Members of the public, especially drivers of commuter buses are reminded to obey traffic regulations to prevent injuries and transport delays. The wreckage of the bus has been safely removed to allow for a free flow of commuter traffic.”