Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Yekini Nabena, speaks to JOHN ALECHENU about the Edo/ Ondo governorship elections, his party’s Caretaker/ Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee and efforts being made to reconcile aggrieved members How was your party able to get the support of many of those who contested against Governor Rotimi Akeredolu for his re-election bid? All the aspirants are with our party. They took a look at the credibility of our party under the new Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee, which has the Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, as chairman. They saw sincerity of purpose and considered the overall interest of the party in taking the decision to support our candidate. Don’t also forget that our candidate, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, immediately reached out to other contestants as soon as he won the contest. He visited most of them and asked for their support; this is the new spirit in our party. What is the fate of the Chief Bisi-Akande-led National Reconciliation Committee since it seems there are now new sets of committees handling the task? Right now in the APC, we have a new national leadership which has hit the ground running and you can see the results. We have a reconciliation committee for Edo and Ondo states and you can see they have started work. You can see results. All our committees are working together to achieve their goal, which is to reconcile all aggrieved members of the party across the country. In states where we are not in control, the national body steps in and where we are in control, we work with the leadership in such states. In all, we make sure that all the stakeholders are carried along to achieve peace in the interest of our party. What has been the response of state chapters of the party to the directive by the National Executive Committee that all members should withdraw cases filed against either the party or its leadership? The national secretariat of our party has become a very busy place. We are looking at areas where we have issues and we are tackling them. We are dealing with human beings who have feelings, we are talking to one another and the response has been very encouraging. Like our caretaker national chairman said recently, we are working and the result of our efforts will shock our opponents who think our internal issues will destroy our party. Consider the peace which was recently achieved in Cross Rivers State. The national chairman called all our party leaders in the state, sat with them and an agreement was reached. This agreement produced a state chairman, Matthew Mbu Jnr, who was accepted by all our stakeholders in the state. You will see more of this in the coming weeks. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party has accused your party of trying to use state power to muscle the opposition. The PDP specifically said your party was planning to use security forces to win the Edo and Ondo governorship elections by all means. How do you respond to that? We have said it before that we are not like the PDP. If we were like them, in 2019 we wouldn’t have given them any space even in the governorship elections that were held but we are not like them. We believe in the safety and security of our citizens. Why would you want to harm people you want to govern? We knew what happened during the President Goodluck Jonathan-led administration and what happened in Rivers State? We all saw what happened in Rivers State; how militants killed people in the name of election. The same Governor Nyesom Wike is the person the PDP made the chairman of their campaign council. We must tell him; Edo State is not Rivers State. The people of Edo State will protect their votes and ensure that our candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, emerges as governor of the state on October 19. It was the same Wike that allegedly said Governor Godwin Obaseki did not know his left from his right and the same person is the one they’ve chosen to lead his campaign for re-election. But the opposition also mentioned the violence and electoral offences which occurred in Kogi and Osun states which your party won… It has become natural for some of our politicians, especially the opposition to say an election was rigged when they lose but where our party loses, they say the election was free and fair. We should look at the facts before making a judgment. Can you compare the atmosphere during elections under this administration with what happened under the PDP? Your party made a lot of promises when campaigning for election in the 2015 presidential election. Governor Nasir El-Rufai-led restructuriing committee was set up and it submitted a report. What is happening regarding that? For now, we all know there are very pressing issues this administration is dealing with at the moment. It is not to say the restructuring issue is not important but you will agree with me that the COVID-19 pandemic and the challenges in the area of security and the economy are issues that have taken a lot of our attention. You will also agree that there are parts of the report that are the responsibility of the National Assembly and I believe they are handling it. The issue of financial autonomy for local government areas which the President has graciously approved is also part of it. We have not abandoned our campaign promises and I know most Nigerians are feeling the impact of this administration’s service delivery in the three areas Mr. President anchored his campaign on namely: the area of fighting corruption, improving security and the economy. Is there something the party is doing to ensure that people don’t just see it as a platform to contest for elections but an avenue to truly serve? Some people are selfish. It is not just about the party even when you look at their lifestyles; that is who they are, you can’t take that away from them. Human beings will be human beings. No matter how hard you try, you can never satisfy everybody; we will continue to do our best to be fair to everyone within our rules and regulations. What is your response to those who say the APC will cease to exist when the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure comes to an end in 2023? Such people should not forget that our President will still be in office by the grace of God when the 2023 election is scheduled to hold. He is a complete party man who like most human beings, will be interested in seeing to it that his legacy is not only upheld but improved upon. He will be the person to hand over power to a successor; our party has learnt from the mistakes of the past and we are doing everything within the law to ensure that we don’t repeat mistakes made by others. Which party or candidate is the APC supporting since it is obvious that it will not be contesting in a tribunal ordered re-run if it holds in Bayelsa State? We are still studying the judgment you referred to but let me say this, as a party, we did not interfere with the PDP for the eight years they spent in power in Bayelsa State with Seriake Dickson as governor. The APC didn’t take the case to the tribunal. We are not a party to the case and we will not be involved in the election if it holds. Looking back, it’s been about five years since the APC came to power at the federal level. Can you in all honesty say you are satisfied with the performance of your party? I have no regrets joining and working for the APC even though my own state is in the hands of the opposition. In my home state of Bayelsa where former President Goodluck Jonathan hails from, the work the APC has done and is still doing is there for all to see. Even the road from Yenagoa, the state capital to Jonathan’s village in Otuoke, was built by this government. Look at it, since 1999 when the PDP was in power till 2015 when the Jonathan administration ended, they said they were constructing the Second Niger Bridge but it didn’t materialise. But today, go there and see what this administration is doing. Take the railways, for instance. Look at what this administration is doing with the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Look at what Babatunde Fashola is doing in the area of rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads across the country. No minister has done what these people are doing. This government has discharged its responsibility with the interest of the larger society at heart. True, we made some mistakes as human beings but those were genuine mistakes and we are making efforts to correct them. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com