GO Uni-European Business Park, which the Vice Chancellor of the university announced during the celebration of the 10th anniversary of Godfrey Okoye University in November last year, is ready to kick off. The Business Park is a project of the International Centre for Migration Policy Development, which is headed by Dr. Michael Spindelegger (former Foreign, Finance Minister and Vice-Chancellor of Austria). Dr. Spindelegger and the Project Director, Mr. Andreas Gebauer, have worked assiduously to secure the funding from the  Österreichische Entwicklungsbank (Oe-EB) and Europäische Investitionsbank (EIB) for the huge project. During the High Level Forum: Africa Forum in Vienna, Austria, in 2018, Dr. Spindelegger informed our Vice President, Professor Yemi Osibanjo, who also attended the Forum about the GO Uni- European Business Park. The Forum was targeted at bringing investors and European financial institutions to see the need to invest in Africa. The GO Uni-European Business Park, which occupies 50 hectares of land at the main campus of Godfrey Okoye University, when completed, will be the biggest and most beautiful business park in any Nigerian university. Mr. Andreas Gebauer, the Project Director, has used his experience in the legal field and business to get big European companies to sign up to be at the park when it is completed. The following companies have already signed up and made some financial commitment: Kekelit Adenbeck Gragger Merl Rauch Jäger Elite Bau Bärnstein Mr. Gebeauer is still negotiating with many other interested foreign and Nigerian companies. It is expected that the Head of Austrian Government, Mr. Sebastian Kurz, the German Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development (Dr. Gerd Müller) and some representatives of the European Union will be in Nigeria next year for the official opening of the GO Uni-European Business Park, which has already been registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission of Nigeria (RC 1679597). You are invited to follow the narrative of the biggest and most beautiful business park in any Nigerian university.  INFORMATION REGARDING THE 2020/21 ACADEMIC SESSION The university has confirmed that the 2020/21 academic session will start on 5 October, 2020. The management of Godfrey Okoye University is working tirelessly to provide as much face-to-face teaching as possible as well as online teaching and learning. Measures will be put in place to ensure the general safety of members of staff and students: maintaining social distancing and also adhering to the directives of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the National Universities Commission and the Federal Government of Nigeria. Prospective students are hereby advised to visit the online admissions portal of the university to fill the admission form online. https://www.gouni.edu.ng/fill-admission-form/ Faculties For enquires call: 08069111019, 08068820118 or email: info@gouni.edu.ng, msnwachukwu@gouni.edu.ng, chinedu@gouni.edu.ng Watch on YouTube (The Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, speaks on partnership projects at GO University) – https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-8ll2HJtCfo 