Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The lawmaker representing Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency of Cross River State, Mr Agom Jarigbe, has raised the alarm over an allegation that the Peoples Democratic Party imposed a candidate for the Cross River North Senatorial District by-election. The lawmaker, who claimed to have won the primary held on September 5, 2020, accused Governor Ben Ayade and the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, of imposing a different candidate. The Chairman of the electoral panel for the PDP primary, Taleb Tebite, had on Monday declared Dr Stephen Odey winner of the poll held in Ogoja, Cross River, on Saturday. Tebite, who was also the returning officer for the poll, made the announcement at the national secretariat of the PDP in Abuja shortly after submitting the report of the exercise to the party. Jarigbe, while addressing journalists in Abuja on Friday, however, accused Ayade and Secondus of overlooking a manipulated process. He alleged that the Tebite panel used a “concocted list” and that he had been informed that Secondus had influenced the party’s National Working Committee to adopt the report submitted by the “compromised” panel. “They have sent the name of my opponent to INEC, but that is subject to litigation; we are in court already and we will be dwelling on Sections 85, 86 and 87 of the Electoral Act,” he added. He said, “There was a premeditated move to favour a particular candidate (aspirant) who happens to be the choice of the governor. That is why on the list of the panel, you had the governor’s very good friends as chairman, secretary and others. It took a protest from me to have two members on that panel. So, it was skewed to give victory to a particular candidate and it played out in the field. The candidate, Stephen Odey, is one of the protégés of the governor.” Jarigbe, who stated that he was declared winner of the primary by the team sent from the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission to monitor the exercise, noted that he was satisfied with the process. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com