Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Wednesday unveiled the theme and logo for the activities to celebrate Nigeria’s 60 years of independence. The theme of the event tagged, ‘Nigeria at 60’ is TOGETHER. Buhari unveiled the theme and logo at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, before the commencement of the virtual meeting of the Federal Executive Council. The President performed the exercise in the presence of some cabinet ministers and other members of the council who joined the meeting online. He described Nigeria, Africa’s largest economy, as the most prosperous black nation in the world. He said, “Today, we stand on the threshold of history as we formally begin a series of activities commemorating Nigeria’s diamond anniversary. “The task history has saddled me with today is to proclaim a theme that will keep us united, help us forge ahead and unveil a logo that will form the critical pillars which our 11-month modest commemorative activities would rest on. “Celebrating 60 years of independence really calls for pomp, but the global COVID-19 pandemic, which has forced all nations in the world to think and act differently, has also foisted on us the imperative of a low-keyed celebration. “Operating within the limitations placed by the COVID-19 pandemic, we created an Internet challenge for Nigerians to make a choice from a set of four pre-selected logos that would appropriately define the theme. “Of these four options, Nigerians from all walks of life participated in making a choice and I am happy to let you know that the logo I will be unveiling is a product of choice from the Nigerian people.” Buhari expressed delight that Nigerians were excelling in every part of the world. On the theme of TOGETHER, President Buhari recounted that the country’s founding fathers, in spite of the differences in faith, tribe and tongue came together to fight for Nigeria’s independence. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com