Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, received the newly re-elected President of African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He seized the opportunity of the visit to again congratulate Adesina and reinstated his confidence in his ability to do more for the continent in his second term. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement titled “President Buhari receives AfDB President, Akinwunmi Adesina, tells him ‘nothing succeeds like success’.” The presidential spokesman qouted Buhari as saying, “I congratulate you on your second and final term in office. Congratulations on winning the election. Nothing succeeds like success. “I have told so many people why I backed you. “In 2015, at your first term, you were a Minister with the Peoples Democratic Party government, and I was of the All Progressives Congress. But you are a good Nigerian. So, I recommended you the first time. You proved to be competent, you made us proud, and I recommended you the second time.” The President commended Adesina for his support for Africa in general, and Nigeria in particular, stressing that the infrastructural deficits the country like roads, rail, and power, could not be overcome without support. “There can’t be sustainable development without infrastructure. Our efforts should be seen in the context of lack of resources, but you do your best to support us. I wish you all the best in your final term,” Buhari added. The AfDB President thanked the Nigerian President and people for their support, saying he was proud to be a citizen of the country. “Home is where dreams are born. Home is where nurturing is provided. It is where support is given for realisation of dreams. I am glad to belong here. “When I came in June, you received me, and I shared my successes, and the difficulties facing me. You listened, and said you would stand by me. And you did. You not only stood behind me, but also beside me. No greater honour for a man than for his Commander-in-Chief to be his Supporter-in-Chief, and his Defender-in-Chief,” Adesina was also qouted as saying. Adesina said Nigeria gave him air, “when I badly needed it in my lungs,” and pledged to always support the country in his private capacity, and as AfDB President.