Deji Lambo A real estate agent, Yusuf Anifowose, has lamented the disappearance of his Toyota Corolla in the Epe area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that Anifowose, who resides in the Ajah area, drove his car, with number plate KSF 837 FW, to Epe for the Eid-el Kabir celebration. After the festivities, he parked the car at the front gate of his friend’s house, where he passed the night. The following morning, Anifowose said the Silver car with chassis number 2TIBR32E14C256104, was nowhere to be found, adding that efforts to locate it had proved abortive. Speaking with PUNCH Metro, the businessman said, “On August 2, a day after Sallah in Epe, it was late and my friends and I were looking for a hotel to lodge in as we all came to Epe that day; but all the hotels were occupied. We searched for a hotel on the outskirts of the town, but we couldn’t get any. We thought that the COVID-19 would discourage people from coming to Epe for the Sallah celebration, but that was not the case. “Later that night, we all decided to sleep in a friend’s house on 162, Lagos Road, Epe. We got there around 2am and parked the two cars we used in conveying ourselves at the front of the house. Around 5am when my friends decided to return to their destinations, we realised that my car was missing, while the second car was still there. “We quickly went to the Epe Police divisional headquarters to make a report. Afterwards, we searched for the vehicle, but we could not find it. Life has been cruel, I must say, and I have yet to get over the shock.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, confirmed the incident, adding that efforts were on to recover the vehicle. He said, “We have circulated a message across other divisions and even beyond the state, so that anyone with useful information about the car can contact us.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 