Tunde Ajaja The Supreme Head, Cherubim & Seraphim Unification Church of Nigeria, His Most Eminence, Prophet Solomon Adegboyega Alao, has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), to reverse the hike in electricity tariff. The cleric also condemned the timing of the increase in the price of petrol, which is a product of the deregulation of the pump price of petrol, noting that the increase would have an effect on food prices. He noted that the President ought to be more concerned with reducing the economic hardship occasioned by the effect of COVID-19 pandemic on Nigerians. According to a statement, Alao spoke at the 95th anniversary thanksgiving service of the church held at the church’s premises on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ogun State on Saturday. He said, “I can see some economic sense in removing petroleum subsidy but the timing is wrong. It caught people unawares because there was no public enlightenment before the sudden removal of the subsidy. “I think electricity supply should be improved upon before talking of increasing the tariff. I don’t know any community that enjoys 12 hours of interrupted power supply in the country not to talk of 24 hours. “Government should link people’s economic independence to crime reduction. If people are hungry and losing hope, they become desperate and they can do anything.” He also advised the government to consider the secular nature of the country in handling the controversial Company and Allied Matters Act as it affects religious organisations, noting that the government has no business interfering with how people decide to worship their God. While condemning the death sentence passed on a Kano singer, Yahaya Sharif-Aminu, he urged the President to intervene in the matter. “If the Kano State Government goes ahead to execute the man, it will send wrong signals to the international community and people of different religions in the country. Alao urged members of the church to support the government and pray for the President and state governors to govern the country with the fear of God and improve the welfare of the masses. He said Nigerians would soon have a national thanksgiving service to celebrate the end of the coronavirus pandemic. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com