Angela Onwuzoo Leaders in the medical profession in the country have described the order by the Nasarawa State Government asking doctors on its payroll to shut their private clinics and hospitals as totally unacceptable. According to them, the government has no right to ask doctors to close private clinics, provided they are operating such facilities in their private time. The medical practitioners described the action of the Nasarawa state government as an infringement on the rights of the doctors, arguing that it is not the business of the state government what the doctors do with their spare time, especially when they have fulfilled their obligations to the state. Nasarawa state government had on Friday ordered medical doctors working in public hospitals in the state to shut their private clinics and hospitals. The decision was taken at the state’s executive council meeting presided by Governor Abdullahi Sule at the Council Chamber, Government House, Lafia. The state’s Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Abdulkarim Abubakar Kana, had explained that the state executive council had endorsed the resolution of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, calling for all doctors on government payroll who own and manage private clinics and hospitals, to close their clinics in order to concentrate on the government hospitals were they earn salaries. Speaking on the issue with PUNCH Healthwise in an exclusive interview, National President, Guild of Medical Directors, Prof. Olufemi Dokun-Babalola, said it was wrong for the Nasarawa state government to tell doctors that they cannot use their spare time to better their lives when they have fulfilled their obligations to the state. According to him, doctors are professionals and not civil servants, insisting that the government has no right to tie them down, provided they have done the needful. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 