Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Peoples Democratic Party chieftain in Ekiti State, Opeyemi Falegan, has called for genuine reconciliation of the warring factions in the party in the state. Falegan called on members in ex-governor Ayodele Fayose and Senator Biodun Olujimi factions to sheathe swords and embrace peace. He said the party should rise up stronger from the contentious issues for it to be able to reclaim the state from the All Progressives Congress, which he said had not met Ekiti people’s yearnings. Falegan made this known in a statement on Saturday titled, ‘Ekiti PDP crisis: Falegan harps on genuine reconciliation’. The statement partly read, “No meaningful development can take place when the party is in crisis, hence the need for an urgent reconciliation now in order to put the party on a right track politically. Therefore, what we need now is unity and cooperation of all.” “We should see the present situation as an opportunity to correct all wrongs in the party since no single faction can pilot the affairs of the party to the promised land. “Past leadership crises within the PDP in Ekiti State and national levels that had been resolved genuinely had also served as a recipe to aggrieved members and this development had attracted aggrieved members back to the party and made it a more formidable and united party. “People need to be convinced that ‘the era of a winner takes all’ has been completely buried in the party while the interest of all members will be adequately protected especially during the party’s primary elections in the nearest future. “The expression of fundamental human rights by the two factions within the party in the current tussle is, no doubt, an indication that PDP members in Ekiti still believe in democracy. After all, the present move will only strengthen the party after a genuine reconcillation that must be acceptable to all groups and stakeholders. “PDP leaders across the board must strive to work together as an indefatigable and united entity in order to reclaim power from the APC during the 2022 governorship election in the state.”