Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna FOURTEEN days after their kidnap, abductors of Prince Academy students are still keeping the parents and the school authority in suspense as the bandits have yet to contact them for ransom. The college is located at Damba-Kasaya village in the Chikun Local Government Area of the state. The gunmen abducted four Junior Secondary School three students of the school, who were receiving lessons for their final examinations and their teacher. Some of the students were said to have escaped following the intervention of security personnel, who pursued the hoodlums to the bushes. Those kidnapped are Miracle Saitu Danjuma , Favour Danjuma, Happy Odoji and Ezra Bako a female teacher, Christiana Madugu. Meanwhile, anxiety has gripped parents of the abducted students, following the report of the killing of a 14-year-old girl, an official of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, and a police officer, who were also abducted by bandits in their homes at the Mararaban Rido area of Kaduna metropolis on August 28. The bandits reportedly killed their victims after collecting ransom. A family member of one of the parents of the abducted students told our correspondent on Wednesday in Kaduna that since the abduction of the students, the bandits called few days after the incident, adding that and that no word was heard from them (kidnappers) for ransom since then. The Kaduna State Police Command has yet to respond to enquiries by our correspondent on the update of the kidnapped students and their teacher 14 days after the incident. As of the time of filing this report, the Public Relations Officer of the Command, Mohammed Jalige, could not be reached and there was no reply to a text message sent to his telephone. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 