Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II has urged the Peoples Democratic Party to guard against enthroning the concept of godfatherism, which they campaigned against in the run up to the Edo State governorship election held on September 19. The royal father said this while playing host to five Peoples Democratic Party governors, who paid him a courtesy call at his Palace in Benin, on Tuesday. Governors who accompanied the host governor, Godwin Obaseki, on the visit were Ahmadu Fintiri (Adamawa), Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Aminu Tanbuwal (Sokoto), and Seyi Makinde (Oyo). Oba Ewere II said, “I want to on this occasion plead with the PDP to guard against godfatherism and not to allow unscrupulous members kill your party. I will tell the PDP governors not become hidden godfathers that will be controlling Governor Obaseki. “All hands should be on deck to work for Edo State and Edo people everywhere they may be. This is where everybody will be proud to belong to. I said the whole world is watching Edo State and I thank God and our ancestors that the elections came without any violence.” While speaking during the event Obaseki expressed gratitude to the Oba for his kind words and promised to rededicate himself to serving the people of Edo in his second term. He said “You are our Oba and it behooves on all of use to preserve the traditional institution. You have kindly received us today; I want to assure you that as the governor of Edo State, I have heard your admonitions and I want to promise that I will rededicate myself in my next tenure to the full service of the state and the people of the state.” Earlier, Wike who introduced his colleagues to the monarch said, “As it is our tradition in PDP, we will always respect the traditional institution and whatever promise we have made, we will always fulfil that promise. You made a promise to us that as a traditional ruler, you are apolitical and so, that you will not canvass for votes for anybody but what you preach is that there should be peace, there should be free and fair election. “Your Royal Majesty, we have seen with our eyes that there was a free and fair and peaceful election. We are calling on everyone to team up with your son for the development of Edo State.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 