Nigeria is one of the countries of the world where the current COVID-19 pandemic was supposed to be a real problem due to multiple factors. Some of these issues have to do with the realities which you and I know about. We have a teeming population supported by a fragile healthcare system. Most of the people live in absolute squalor with poor environmental sanitation and phantom clean running water. Communicable diseases are rife and a great percentage of the populace lives on less than two United States dollars per day. In the cities and big towns, there is overcrowding mainly in the slums, a lot of ignorance and many children out of school. All these were the conditions necessary for the formation of a perfect storm. In the end, that did not happen and scientists do not yet know why nor is there any indication that they ever will. The reality is that the government realised many of these inadequacies and locked down early. She confined people to their homes to the best of their ability, imposed curfews, closed the borders and mobilised the few healthcare workers available with some additional incentives. Officially, we have just less than 60,000 confirmed cases till date and something just over 1,000 deaths. We have been extremely lucky, it seems, as we saw no peak in infections and no plateau; there was no curve as such not to mention efforts at flattening one. The hospitals were not inundated with the seriously ill and dying. Nor were our television screens beaming images of chaos within the treatment centres into our living rooms much as we saw in some other countries of the world. In order to have a pandemic, an organism needs to be able to strike many people at once in many different countries on a large scale and cause disease in many, many people while conducting its havoc. It therefore needs to be highly contagious in an atmosphere where there is no prior immunity to the disease. As of today, there have been about 30 million cases of coronavirus cases around the world according to Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine with nearly 950,000 deaths. Clearly, therefore, we have yet to see an end to this malady. However, it appears to be the case that mankind will ultimately be able to coexist with this virus much as we have coped in the past with similar organisms before now that have caused similar havoc within populations. It is still raging in the United States, Brazil and India while some countries that had previously flattened their curves are seeing a second wave of infections as in Western Europe and Australia. About a century ago, a new strain of the influenza virus infected about one third of the world’s population. In the 1918 to 1919 flu pandemic, therefore, tens of millions of people were killed and while many of the same measures in place today were enacted at that time, the pandemic slowed and ultimately stopped so that within a three year period, the disease had passed. Today, we live with the flu. It has not caused another pandemic even though just two years ago, it was responsible for nearly 80,000 deaths in the United States alone. The same is true for the Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome which is caused by a strain of the coronavirus but has not caused a pandemic. These and other similar viruses now cause seasonal infections much like the common flu and pass on largely because humans have developed some immunity towards them. For any similar virus presently in existence and able to cause some disease, it must be clear that at some point many centuries ago, it was responsible for a pandemic. And there will be other pandemics even after this one. During the great flu pandemic a century ago, there was no vaccine but the infection rate slowed on its own and stopped eventually. The same thing is largely so today. Physical distancing, the use of face coverings and the adherence to basic hand hygiene, much as we are doing today, helped in some ways to slow the rate of spread of the virus. It was brought to a halt because populations had developed a herd immunity whereby many people had developed some immunity to the virus that it was no longer a threat. It then became a seasonal flu until some 40 years later when it was replaced by the Asian flu pandemic caused by H2N2. However, achieving that milestone came at great cost as many millions of people died around the world.  And now, that is being replaced by another virus while those other ones recede into the status of a seasonal flu. While there are many promising vaccines undergoing trials around the world, there will have to be a worldwide vaccination strategy to defeat this virus ultimately before it will be eradicated like smallpox was eradicated. That will be very difficult and it will take years. In the end, despite the advances in major healthcare techniques since the pandemic of 1918, better equipped hospitals, more manpower with better training, intensive care units and organised ambulance units, many people have died around the world and we have had to resort to the very same measures put in place a century ago. All of that goes to demonstrate that when there is great uncertainty about the nature of any disease mankind will still find refuge in doing what has worked well from a historical perspective. In the end, this pandemic will cease from being a pandemic and instead become some sort of seasonal flu. Some people will still die of it occasionally but not on the sort of global scale as we have seen with this problem over the last 10 months. Vaccines will become available especially for use by the most vulnerable; the children under 12 years of age, the elderly people and obese middle aged people with pre-existing heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes. It will also help to remind mankind that despite advances in healthcare, that it is possible to encounter similar conditions like this one able to cause such immense disruptions to normal life, ruin livelihoods and bankrupt national economies. The lessons learnt from this one will serve as a template to prepare for the next pandemic. Hopefully, that should get a country like Nigeria working hard to improve its response to the next blow. After all, during the 1918 pandemic, when Nigeria was a brand new country, just four years after the Amalgamation, it is estimated that some 100,000 people were killed in a population of about 15 million. That was a huge number of lives lost compared to what we have this year. From that perspective, we have been extremely fortunate but more work needs to be done. Dear doctor, my wife has been operated twice on fibroid and it has grown again and she has never conceived. I went to an In-vitro fertilisation centre but they said it cannot be done since the fibroid is big and many gynaecologists have advised that the third operation may lead to the removal of her womb. Please I need your advice sir. Thanks. xxx@xxx.com Although this particular aspect was not captured in the essay as it related only to fibroids existing along with a pregnancy, the best option for you is what the gynaecologists have told you; so see them again for what I would term a final reassessment. Bless you. Dear doctor, good day and well done. A lot of us benefit from your weekly “Sunday Doctor” in Sunday PUNCH. I am happy for you oooh (Nigerian phrase) as not only do you get prayed for, you also get paid by Punch (You confirmed this sometime ago).  My comment is on your answer to a question in your article of September 13 on the genotype always having malaria which you professionally answered. I knew even without recourse to your answer that it is the AA genotype. My son is AA (I am AS+) and I got to know this (frequent malaria) years ago during the course of his treatment. I would have thought you will go on to explain why this is so or for space constraint you intend leaving that topic for another day? It will go a long way in helping the public know why malaria is a frequent ailment for some as it will be informative and educating. Ride on, thank you and God bless.   xxx@xxx.com Thank you very much for your comments. The AA genotype is still the most frequently encountered genotype in our part of the world. However, it is speculated that many centuries ago, that genotype was modified by adaptation brought about by the need to develop some resistance to malaria which was killing off many people. This is a product of natural selection developed to combat malaria without resulting in fatality. As a result, the amino acid glutamic acid was replaced by another one called valine in position 6 of the beta helical chain of the person’s haemoglobin, the blood protein that carries oxygen. That point change causes the formation of the genotype AS. In the end, more than 90 per cent of children born with the genotype AA are susceptible to malaria compared with just about 12 per cent of those born with genotype AS. Dear doctor, greetings sir, always getting time to read your column on health matters. More power to your elbow and Grace upon you sir. My questions are: .I spit out every morning after brushing my teeth. I changed toothpaste, yet, nothing changes and this thing is causing embarrassment. People do ask if I am pregnant. What is the solution sir? .Is there any effects on a man that abstained from sex just few months ago? If there is, what is the solution without having sex to relieve the pain or the guy is just looking for how to have his way into the lady private parts again? Thanks sir.  xxx@xxx.com Thank you very much as well. I would rather you saw an ear, nose and throat surgeon for investigation and therapy. That would help you deal with the dilemma you face now with regards to spitting out saliva every morning. As for the second question, I am not sure of what you mean; there are no health effects of not having sex. However, there are benefits from having sex which you will not enjoy. Such lack thereof will not cause you any problems. Dear doctor, please sir, my two breasts are soft. So what can I do sir? Thank you. 0903xxxxxxx The breasts are normally supposed to be soft. If they are hard, something bad is the reason. However, if your question is that they are not sufficiently firm, it would be something that has to do with your age but you did not disclose that. The younger a woman is, the firmer the breasts become and as a woman ages especially after attaining menopause, the breasts become much softer so that they even droop. Dear doctor, I am 16 years old. What is the natural remedy for breast fibroadenoma? 0814xxxxxxx These are some of the most common non-cancerous growths found in the breasts of most young women. They are usually painless but should be taken to a doctor for the proper level of attention. Frequently, they would be recommended for removal especially if they keep growing or changing the shape of the breast. However, in most cases, no treatment is required and you can safely ignore them provided you ensure they are monitored for further growth and other changes.  If that is what you might term a natural remedy that is what I would say is the closest to it; a form of benign neglect.  However, if you are referring to the use of some herbal therapy, I do not know of any. Dear doctor, my boobs hurt really badly after my boyfriend sucked them. What does that mean? 0810xxxxxxx It does not mean anything. It is either the sucking was not sufficiently gentle or they are sore from cracked nipples but that will pass especially if you employ some gentle massage with a warmed towel and take pain relievers. Dear doctor, thank Jesus. There is no more cough. I have done the test in which they said streptococcus was found. I was given gentamycin injection for three days and prescribed ciprofloxacin tablets with the inscription max heal 500mg. but where the streptococcus came from surprises me. Thank God; I felt like calling you when the cough was really much and seemed to be getting out of control. 0805xxxxxxx Thank God for that. However, it serves to demonstrate to you and to many others that you do not get good results from treatment regimens based on guesswork. It is always better to see a competent healthcare expert and have a proper examination which includes laboratory testing. You will pay for that service, yes, but you will spend a lot less money before you are cured. When treatment is based on a feeling, rather than science, you would have had several false and useless therapies before you do what is proper and get the proper treatment. As for streptococci, they are gram positive bacteria that tend to grow in chains. There are many different types causing a variety of infections. It is usually contracted when one comes in direct contact with the discharge from the nose or throat of an infected person or comes in direct contact with the wound or skin sore of another person. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com