Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin The Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressive Congress have expressed doubts about the quality of contestants. The state Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu on Sunday described Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as “a honeymoon governor.” He said “We are in an era where nations all over the world are seeking for people with brains to enhance good governance and not those who are seeking public office for vain glory like Ize-Iyamu. “Edo is in a safe hand with Obaseki and we can’t handover the State to political merchants who are capable of auctioning the state to buy private properties. “Our Administration has removed Edo State from the base instinct to satisfy individual and group interest at the expense of corporate progress of the State, and this is because Governor Obaseki is not materialistic.” In response, the APC described Governor Godwin Obaseki as a “divorce governor,” it also referred to Shaibu as an “unrepentant militant,” adding that Edo state does not need them and is poised to do away with their “regressive regime.” The APC in a statement by the chairman of the APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, said “I respect the office of the Deputy Governor, but I have zero tolerance for falsehood. “I read the deputy’s inharmonious narratives of falsehood and I can authoritatively tell you that the vindictive person who flies abroad is Governor Obaseki. He flew abroad so much that on one such occasion, his Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism had to go to jail in his place. The facts are there. So, who is honeymooning?” Meanwhile, a former Attorney General of the state, Henry Idahagbon has assured that the September 19 governorship election will be free, fair and credible. He said this in an interview with The PUNCH, in Benin, on Sunday.  Idahagbon said “I will urge our people not to entertain any fear despite the ‘drum beat of war.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com