Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin The Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress has alleged that it has uncovered “a dubious multi-pronged drive” by the Peoples Democratic Party to rig the Governorship election in the state on September 19. In a statement, in Benin, on Thursday, the Director General of the APC Campaign Council, Dr Cecil Esekhaigbe alleged that the PDP was plotting to manipulate the electoral process to gain undue advantage. He said “Under the guise of assisting intending voters with transportation, the governor has released the sum of N250m to the Edo Liaison Office, Abuja to induce voters living in Abuja and also buy the PVCs of those who will not be able to attend at N200,000 per PVC. In executing this ploy, the Abuja Liaison office has sent out notices to platforms of Edo Indigenes in Abuja, inviting them to come with their PVCs to the office from Friday 4th September to Friday 11th September, 2020. Also, the Chairman of the APC campaign media team John Mayaki, in a separate statement on a related allegation claimed that the Peoples Democratic Party campaign team had concluded plans to “earmark N1bn cash as the gift,” for official of various agencies in order to compromise the process while an extra N4bn was also allegedly set aside to purchase voters across the state on Election Day. In response, State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chris Nehikhare said the APC had turned into a one fake news per day party. “The APC are staring defeat in the face and have resorted to fake news. This allegation is baseless. “They are flying a kite and we will be vigilant to make sure their fake voters are not allowed into voting centres as they are the ones they want to use to cause trouble at the polling units. Their plans will fail. They cannot subvert the will of Edo people.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 