John Alechenu, Abuja The Caretaker/Extra-ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress, has urged party members in Ekiti State to support the newly inaugurated Governor Nasir El-Rufai -led reconciliation panel to achieve its objective of reconciling feuding party members. This appeal was contained in a statement titled, ‘Ekiti APC: El-Rufai, Wase, Okorocha, Marwa, Others Lead Reconciliation Process,’ signed by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena, in Abuja, on Tuesday. He said “In line with the mandate of the APC Caretaker Committee and the President’s admonition to party members to support amicable and rancour-free settlement of internal party disputes, we call on our esteemed party members and leaders in Ekiti State to approach the Governor Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai-led Reconciliation Committee with all issues so as to achieve amicable settlement in the state chapter. The Governor Mai Mala Buni-led national caretaker committee of the APC on Monday appointed a six-member high-level reconciliation committee to resolve the crisis in the Ekiti State Chapter of the party. The committee which has Kaduna State Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai as chairman and Mr.Ini Morgan as Secretary was inaugurated by the Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, Sen. John Akpanudoedehe, at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja, on Monday. Other members of the committee are Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris Wase, Gen. Lawal Jafaru Isah (retd.), Senator Rochas Okorocha and former Lagos State Military Administrator, Gen. Muhammed Buba Marwa (retd.). Recall that the Ekiti State chapter of the APC has been embroiled in a crisis following the suspension and counter suspension of party leaders by factions. A faction of the party had suspended the Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, Oyetunde Ojo, an in-law to the APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu and nine others. In response, Ojudu and his loyalists suspended Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, and other party leaders sympathetic to his cause. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 