Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin The Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Congress were on Monday engaged in a war of words over the alleged shooting of 13 PDP members who were said to be having a meeting in Ekpe community, Akoko-Edo Local Government Area of Edo State at the weekend. Leaders of the PDP, who stormed the Secretariat of the Nigerian Union of Journalists on Monday, alleged that three people wearing face caps with the photographs of Governor Godwin Obaseki were shot by gunmen at Ososo community by suspected APC thugs. They claimed that the injured are currently receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital. But the Chairman of the APC media campaign council, John Mayaki, alleged that the attack was masterminded by the PDP. Addressing journalists on the incident, the Chairman, Akoko-Edo LGA, Don Umoru, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); and the Inspector-General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, come to their rescue and ensure that the perpetrators were apprehended and prosecuted. He stated, “On the 28th of August, 2020, gunmen on the campaign train of the APC, led by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his governorship candidate, Osagie-Ize-Iyamu, opened gunfire at some PDP supporters on the Ekpe public field while they were holding a meeting. About 13 person were left injured and critically lying at the hospital” “We, hereby call on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector General of Police, to bring the perpetrators of this crime to book. Furthermore, the APC should be made to put on hold all further plans to campaign in Akoko-Edo till tension subsides, otherwise Akoko-Edo will be forced to resist and defend themselves.” Speaking on the incident, said, “The PDP is deceiving itself by orchestrating attacks and laying the blame on the APC. People were arrested with arms at the Edo State House of Assembly; those they mentioned were their sponsors.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 