Tessy Igomu A medical practitioner in Lagos, Dr. Cosmas Odoemena, says Russia has set a bad precedent that can affect safety measures for the production of vaccines in future. He cited what he described as Russia’s ‘premature approval’ of its candidate COVID-19 vaccine — Sputnik V — as reason for the statement. Odoemena said Russia’s action also poses a potential health risk, adding that already following Russia’s ‘misstep’ is China, which has decided to approve Sinovac’s COVID-19 vaccine candidate. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise in an exclusive interview, the physician said Russia “jumped the gun” by hastily approving the vaccine for use, without completing the processes vaccines undergo before they’re considered safe for public use. “There are majorly three phases of a vaccine or drug trial. The Russian vaccine went through the first two phases but has not gone through the third. “Russia did not even publish its trials until a few days ago when it did in The Lancet, a peer-reviewed journal. The country is just about to start the phase three human trials. “There are over 300 candidate vaccines for COVID-19, with many in more advanced stages of development than Russia’s Sputnik V. “Yet it went on to announce its approval for production before completing the last trial. It is highly unethical,” Odoemena said. He noted the controversies surrounding vaccine production bordering on ethical issues, adding, “They relate to research and testing, informed consent and equitable distribution of the vaccines. But vaccines must still complete the mandatory protocols.” He said the result obtained from phase two human trials of the Russian vaccine was not enough to draw conclusions on safety and efficacy. Highlighting the importance of the three phases of vaccine trials, the physician said the drug manufacturing company, AstraZeneca, stopped its Oxford University randomised clinical trial when one of the participants developed an unexplained illness. He then warned that using a vaccine that had yet to undergo the final trials wherein it is tested on an increased number of consenting people could destroy humanity. “Now, there are almost eight billion people in the world. And we are all different, even in our genetic makeup. “In phase one trial, the vaccine is tested on a small group of people, say, between 20 and 80. This is meant to determine how the vaccine works, and to pick adverse effects. Even then, one life matters. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com