Deji Lambo The family of Adeyoruwa in the Igbogbo Bayeku Local Council Development Area of Lagos State has sought the intervention of the Adeboruwa of Igbogbo Kingdom, Oba Semiudeen Kasali, over an alleged threat to demolish the property of residents by a member of their family, Ishau Ogunlana. PUNCH Metro gathered that the family, consisting of the Oyekan, Derufe, Kuti and Sopena branches, while narrating their ordeal to Kasali and his chiefs, complained that Ogunlana was behind the disputes in the family. Speaking at the palace, a representative of the Derufe branch, Olawale Abdullahi, said the accused had been demolition notice on houses in the community. He said, “We have come to report to the royal majesty about our challenges at Agunfoye Idi-Orogbo and complain that Ogunlana has been responsible for the troubles within our family and the community. He has been acting as if he is the only one in the family and taking everyone to court and demolishing houses. “He has been taking family members to court and police stations, thereby disturbing the peace in our family and that of the Agunfoye community. He recently pasted notice of demolition on houses and that is why we are here to appeal to the palace to intervene in our matter to resolve it.” Speaking on behalf of the Oyekan branch, Felix Bakare said Ogunlana had allegedly been carrying his actions based on a judgement that was for their family, adding that the situation worsened when he reportedly failed to acknowledge two branches of the Adeyoruwa family. He said, “He started with the Kutis when he got a judgment against them and demolished their houses. He doesn’t even want to see the Sopenas, whereas his father and that of the Kutis and Sopenas have been living in Agunfoye since time immemorial. “The judgments that he (Ogunlana) is executing was given to the family, but he is using it to his advantage at the expense of the family and the entire community.” However, Goddy Osuyi, counsel to Ogunlana, said he was not invited to the meeting at the palace, adding that there was a judgement stating that the Kutis and Sopenas were not members of the Adeyoruwa family. Osuji said, “In the suit number, IKD/2/2007, the court dismissed all the prayers of the junior members of the family and affirmed Ogunlana as the head of the Adeyoruwa family and that any land sold without his consent is void. “In another case, IKD/86/2006, the Kuti branch of the family instituted a suit against Ogunlana at the High Court of Lagos. The judgement of the court was that the Kutis are only entitled to six acres as a statutory tenant of the entire area, which belonged to the Adeyoruwa family. “While the case was pending in court, the Kuti family were busy selling land to people without the consent of Ogunlana. In 2011, Sopena family also sued Ogunlana and their prayer was that Sopena family is a branch of Adeyoruwa family and the court in that judgment decided that Sopena is not a branch of the Adeyoruwa family. “All these judgements prove that Sopena and Kuti are not members of the family and there is no appeal against these judgments. What we did recently was that we approached the court to ask for possession regarding any land sold and developed without the consent of Ogunlana and we went to those areas to paste a notice in compliance with the order of the court.” The monarch, Kasali, in his reaction, said, “It’s quite unfortunate that the matter has been lingering for a while. I met it when I ascended the throne and what I am doing now is to find a way of amicably resolving it. “In the course of our deliberation at the palace, the resolve was that they want peace to return to their family and Agunfoye Idi-Orogbo community. Since they have resolved to live in peace, what the palace has decided to do is to partner them in resolving all the issues that are lingering within the family.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 