Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Office of the Accountant General of the Federation on Thursday announced the commencement of a comprehensive review of treasury forms and other accounting source documents in use in all federal ministries, departments and agencies. It said the review was in exercise of the mandate of the Accountant-General of the Federation under FR.107 (n) to issue officially approved forms bearing treasury numbers for use in all federal MDAs to ensure uniformity. The OAGF in a statement issued in Abuja by the Director, Information, Press and Public Relations, Henshaw Ogubike, stated that already, the Accountant-General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, had inaugurated an inter-ministerial committee to handle the review of the documents. During the inauguration of the committee, Idris said the team was expected to identify all treasury forms and accounting source documents presently in use. He said the committee would come up with new formats in line with the public financial reforms, recommend additions or deletions of the contents, assign relevant number systems to the treasury forms and review the documents in line with GIFMIS operations. In carrying out the assignment, Idris said the committee should be guided by the Federal Government’s quest for adoption of e-governance at all levels and that the public finance reforms were predicated on full deployment of ICT solutions. On the rationale for the review of the documents, the AGF said the contents of the treasury forms and other accounting source documents in use were no longer useful to drive the public finance management reforms of government, which were mostly ICT-driven. He explained that a comprehensive review and update of these accounting source documents was thus imperative for an efficient and successful implementation of government’s financial management reforms. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com