Johnny Edward Hoffenheim centre-back Kevin Akpoguma and three other German players of Nigerian descent are set to be rewarded for their impressive performances in the Bundesliga last season with a call up to the Nigerian senior national team next month, The PUNCH reports. The Super Eagles will face Ivory Coast and Tunisia in international friendlies on October 9 and 13 respectively, in Austria. “The coach has stated that four new defenders from the German Bundesliga namely Akpoguma, Felix Agu, Felix Uduokai and Jordan Torunarigha are likely to get invitations for next month’s international friendlies,” an Eagles official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told The PUNCH. “This will bring more competition to the defence and make it more formidable.” Born to a Nigerian father and German mother, Akpoguma, 25, is expected to be joined in the yet to be named squad by 20-year-old Werder Bremen full-back Felix Agu, Wolfsburg defender Felix Uduokhai, who celebrates his 23rd birthday on Wednesday, and 6ft3in tall Hertha Berlin defensive stalwart Jordan Torunarigha, our correspondent learnt from a top team official. According to our source, coach Gernot Rohr expects the new additions to give regulars Kenneth Omeruo, Semi Ajayi, William Troost-Ekong, Jamilu Collins, Chidozie Awaziem, Ola Aina and Leon Balogun a run for their money. Rohr had earlier hinted that he might be tempted to invite a long list of players, having scouted fresh faces during the lockdown. Akpoguma represented Germany from U-16 level to the U-21s, and captained the German U-20 side at the 2015 U-20 World Cup. He is yet to join the Nigerian set-up despite opening the door to a switch since 2018. Agu, Uduokhai and Touraringha have also represented Germany at junior levels. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  