Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The   co-founder, Emeraldscape Environmental Development, Mrs Adefunke Anoma, has advocated enactment of a law proscribing use of nylon bags and plastics for shopping in view of the ill effects on the environment. Anoma, who said nylon materials and platics were responsible for 50 per cent of the flood crises in the country, charged governments, groups and individuals to rise to the occasion to help the environment, humanity and living things. The EMEND co-founder spoke in Ado Ekiti on Friday during the launch of ‘shoppers’ reusable bag awareness campaign’ – a campaign against nylon bags and plastics organised by the group in partnership with Seedavest and Green Preserve Initiative. She advised the Nigerian government to take a cue from other countries which had banned the use of single use items like nylon bags and plastics and had embraced use of reusable items. Anoma advised on use of materials that could easily decay as alternatives to nylon bags and plastics. He said, “We have containers in our homes that we can take to the market. We have bowls, baskets, raffia bags made from natural materials, fabrics and bags from souvenirs. “The government can assist us by making sure that in the environmental laws, they proscribe the use of nylon bags or the production of so much nylon bags in circulation. “There could be a law proscribing the supermarkets, stores or shopping malls from using nylon bags. “The supermarkets, malls can produce reusable shopping bags for their customers and ensure that the customers come back with the bags to shop again. If the government can make such laws, it would assist in this campaign.” The Commissioner for Environment, Princess Iyabo Fakunle-Okiemeimen, who lauded EMEND for the initiative, said the government would partner the group to achieve sustainable and healthy environment. Fakunle-Okiemeimen called on the shopping malls in the state to embrace the use of reusable bags in the place of nylon bags for good and sustainable environment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com