Tony Okafor, Awka The Indigenous People of Biafra has declared October 1 as a sit-at-home day across Biafraland. The group said the decision was to avert what it called “wild killing” in the area. The group said it got credible intelligence stating that terrorist groups planned to attack the people of the region, who would intend to celebrate the Independence Day. In a statement by the group’s media and publicity secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB said its members would join those agitating for the Oduduwa Republic, in public protests to mark the day. The pro-Biafran group said “a complete and total lockdown of Biafraland and other terror-ravaged areas of the Middle Belt on the 1st of October 2020 was sacrosanct, irreversible, and non-negotiable”. It enjoined Biafrans and Nigerians to boycott every government organised ceremony designed to eulogise Nigeria. The statement read in part, “We, the global movement of the Indigenous People of Biafra, wish to announce to all Biafrans, friends of Biafra and lovers of freedom all over the world that Biafrans across the globe shall observe a sit-at-home in Biafraland, and where permissible in the diaspora, join our Yoruba brethren agitating for the Oduduwa Republic, in public protests to mark October 1, 2020. “We, therefore, enjoin all Biafrans and every conscious Nigerian to boycott every government-organised ceremony designed to eulogise the failure that Nigeria has become. “This is the time to let the world know how disastrously intolerable human existence is in Nigeria today. “If you want to see an end to terrorism and organised mediocrity, now is the time to register your anger by ensuring that you and your household sit-at-home on October 1, 2020. Do not risk the life and well-being of your children by allowing them to gather in groups in the open where terrorists may find it easier to blow them up or kidnap them. “There is credible intelligence that terrorist groups are planning to slaughter our children should they venture out to celebrate or march on October 1st. “Complete and total lockdown of Biafraland and other terror-ravaged areas of the Middle Belt come 1st of October 2020 is sacrosanct, irreversible and non-negotiable! “We therefore urge that all markets, schools, and businesses in Biafraland and beyond be shut down as a mark of respect to all those who have died as a result of terrorism against innocent civilians, especially Christians, ethnic cleansing in Southern Kaduna and elsewhere across the Middle Belt. “Everywhere in Biafraland must be under lock for Nigeria and the world to know that we are all united in our march toward total freedom. There should be no public events or ceremonies in Biafraland to avoid any needless loss of lives.”