John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party has raised the alarm over an alleged plot by the opposition All Progressives Congress in Edo State, to scuttle the September 19, Governorship Election through the use of a frivolous lawsuit. National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, raised the alarm at a press conference, in Abuja, on Sunday. He said the party has credible intelligence that the APC which was now aware that defeat was imminent has resorted to using fringe political parties to approach the courts with a view to causing a constitutional crisis which will if it succeeds, truncate the election and pave way for an unconstitutional takeover of the state. Ologbondiyan said “The Peoples Democratic Party raises alarm over plots by certain interests recruited by the All Progressives Congress to use frivolous lawsuit to scuttle the September 19 Edo state governorship election, following APC’s realization that there is no way it can win in the election. READ ALSO: Amotekun should have cells, handle prosecution – Odumakin “The said interests who are masquerading through certain political groups are seeking to blackmail the judiciary and stampede the court to violate the clear provisions of the Electoral Act and illegally halt the Edo election. “Nigerians are already aware that section 87(10) (11) of the Electoral Act, clearly prohibits the courts from restraining the conduct of party primaries and general elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission. “This section of the Electoral Act has put paid to situations in the past, where groups or individuals who have no real stake in elections were used as cannon fodders by selfish individuals and groups to manipulate the courts and frustrate electoral process against the interest of the people.” According to the PDP Spokesman, it was now clear that the aim of the APC is to use political groups to drag in the judiciary, trigger constitutional crisis in Edo state, the Niger Delta region and the nation at large and blame it on the court. He further said “The APC’s calculation is a reenactment of a similar judicial quagmire that led to the scuttling of the 1993 general election, a development that led to a serious national crisis that almost destroyed the corporate existence of our country. “The PDP stands with the people of Edo state in condemning this plot by the APC to derail the democratic order, scuttle the governorship election, create an emergency situation, forcefully seize power and foist an undemocratic and oppressive regime in Edo state. “Our party therefore cautions such unpatriotic persons to note that the people of Edo state are ready to go to the poll on September 19 and will vehemently resist any attempt by anybody to tamper with the schedule of election or attempt a forceful takeover of their state.” The party also said it was aware that armed soldiers have been drafted to the residences of the former National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole in the Government Reserved Area, Benin and his country home in Iyamu. “Our Party holds that it is indecorous, shameful and sinful on the part of the APC and the Buhari Presidency to leave the flanks of our people in Katsina, Kaduna, Benue, Yobe, Adamawa, Sokoto, Kogi open to bandits while Soldiers are guarding the residence of suspended Oshiomhole just to enable him perpetrate electoral heist.” Ologbondiyan said. The PDP urged the Federal Government to withdraw the soldiers and put them to better use in Katsina, Kaduna, Sokoto and Zamfara where our nationhood is being threatened by terrorists and bandits. A response from the APC campaign council was still being awaited as at the time of filing this report.