’Tosin Oluwalowo Super Eagles defender, Tyronne Ebuehi, who was out injured for two years, says watching his teammates from home at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt wasn’t easy. The 24-year-old is just recovering from injury after rupturing his left anterior cruciate ligament in Benfica’s International Champions Cup defeat by Juventus July 28, 2018. The right-back, who recently joined Dutch side FC Twente on loan from Benfica, said he felt sad Nigeria could not win the AFCON, after losing to Algeria in the semi-final. “I saw every game. It wasn’t easy for me. I always wanted to be with the team and play in my first Nations Cup,” Ebuehi told BBC Sport Africa. “For me international breaks are always special, the friendships I’ve made and formed with the coaching and backroom staff, teammates and everyone in Nigeria. “I was very proud. I miss that a lot but life is life. I was happy to see them play the way they did, unfortunately, we didn’t win but I know better days will come for us and more success. I cannot wait to be a part of the team again.” He also added that the national team offered him support throughout the time he was out injured. “Of course teammates, the coach, the staff and even the fans were in touch. I spoke with a lot of my teammates. “William Troost-Ekong is like a big brother who never stopped giving me the necessary support. They’ve all been incredibly nice to me and I appreciate that. “I can’t thank the Nigerian fans enough. I don’t check my social media messages everyday but once in a while I do and I see some amazing and incredible messages. “So many people praying and wishing me well despite being away for two years. I will continue to be grateful for the support I get,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  