Sunday Aborisade, Abuja Senator Kabiru Marafa, who represented Zamfara Central in the 8th National Assembly, on Friday, described as a lie an allegation by a former governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari, that he nominated some key officials serving in the administration of Governor Bello Matawalle. Yari had expressed his readiness to reconcile with aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress in the state, but added that such efforts would fail because many of those against him were Marafa’s candidates and were currently serving in the Peoples Democratic Party-led administration in the state. The former governor had spoken on Tuesday at the national secretariat of the APC shortly after meeting with the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the party. He said, “We are to reconcile with everyone. But a situation where you are going to reconcile with somebody who already has members in the government of the state cannot work. He (Marafa) has the Secretary to the State Government; he has commissioners and he has everyone there.” But reacting to Yari’s allegations during an interview with journalists in Abuja on Friday, Marafa said he had no nominees in Matawalle’s administration. He said, “It is not true that I nominated the SSG and commissioners in the PDP-led Zamfara State Government. Nothing can be farther from the truth. This has again underscored Yari’s hypocrisy because Yari’s APC knows better than anyone that both the SSG and the said commissioners are members of another political party. “They contested the 2019 general elections on the platform of that political party, not the APC. So, what is Yari talking about? They shouldn’t have been appointed because they are my (supposed) friends? “As of today, 10 local government chairmen that are certified Yari boys, his former deputy and the current Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs are all serving under Governor (Bello) Matawalle. So, what is he talking about? Let him swear by Allah that he didn’t plant them there ahead of the 2023 elections.” The senator expressed fears that the APC interim panel might fail in its efforts at reconciling the aggrieved members in Zamfara if it failed to reach out to all parties in the crisis. He said, “What I know is that the committee is already failing and they are failing because they are listening to the likes of Yari who always speak out of both sides of their mouths. There are a few good people in the committee that mean well to the party and I advise them to wake up and do what they are asked to do and leave the politics of 2023,” Marafa added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com