John Alechenu, Abuja Supporters of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, have inaugurated a political movement, ‘BAT Project 23,’ to canvas support for him to contest in the 2023 presidential election. The group, which has its members drawn from across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory, held its inaugural BAT Project ’23 leaders’ conference for all the state coordinators tagged: ‘The Bold Step’ in Abuja, on Friday. National coordinator of the group, Umar Inusa, in an address at the gathering said it was time for the APC national leader to offer himself for service in order to build on the successes recorded by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). According to him, the former Lagos State governor has demonstrated a can-do spirit since joining politics. He explained that it was worthy of note that the “political tactician” had mentored countless leaders across disciplines without considering their religious or ethnic backgrounds. Inusa said, “Tinubu is a leader who transforms nothing into something and feeds his people from the riches of what has been so transformed. “In his time as Lagos State governor, staff salaries, developmental projects, philanthropic activities never stopped. That is the man of Bola Tinubu; and that is just one state.” “Now, think about the bigger picture here. If he did that in Lagos and we never heard Lagos State going into recession at the time, what if he had the whole country struggling to manage her abundant resources? Let us ponder upon that. “That is the man of calibre and pedigree, a charismatic and selfless leader we pray to canvass support to pilot the affairs of this nation and take it to the Promised Land.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com