Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Special Adviser to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu; an in-law to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Oyetunde Ojo; and the 10 aggrieved APC members in Ekiti State, have vowed not to appear before the disciplinary committee set up to by the state chapter of the party. The aggrieved members made their position known in a letter written by their legal representative, Chief Ademuyiwa Adeniyi and Co, to the committee. In the later dated September 16, 2020, which was titled, ‘Re: Invitation to appear before investigative disciplinary committee,’ they faulted the composition of the committee. The aggrieved members include a former governorship aspirant, Dr Wole Oluyede; Ayo Ajibade; Femi Adeleye; Chief Akin Akomolafe; Bamigboye Adegoroye; Olusoga Owoeye; Dele Afolabi; Toyin Oluwasola, Ben Oguntuase and Bunmi Ogunleye. The APC State Publicity Secretary, Sam Oluwalana, had on Thursday last week announced that the party set up the disciplinary committee in line with a directive from the APC National Caretaker Committee following the refusal of the aggrieved party members to comply with the directive to withdraw all pending cases against the party from court. However, the letter from the Adeniyi’s chambers read in part, “Information at the disposal of our clients is contrary to your claim that the National Caretaker Committee of the APC directed the Ekiti State Chapter to set up disciplinary committee to try members that are exercising their fundamental human rights as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and APC constitution. “Bringing all the foregoing into account, it is the well-informed decision of our clients not to attend the invitation of your committee as it is sub-judice in law with consequences.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  