… as man arraigned for fraud in Borno Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe and Ifeoluwa Oyerinde The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, on Thursday, arraigned one Taofeek Adereti before the Lagos State High Court in Ikeja for the theft of N3,948,739.66. Adereti was arraigned on three counts bordering on conspiracy and stealing before Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo. It was gathered that Adereti allegedly stole the money belonging to one Modinat Agbeniga and converted it to his personal use. The suspect pleaded not guilty to the charges. The charges read in part, “That you, Taofeek Adereti and Monsurat Adereti (still at large), on or about August 23, 2017, at Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, dishonestly stole and converted to your use the sum of N2,854,494.52, the property of Mrs Modinat Agbeniga.” In view of the defendant’s plea, the prosecution counsel, S. O. Daji, requested a trial date, while the defence informed the court of a pending bail application. Following the submission of both counsel, Justice Taiwo ordered the remand of the defendant in EFCC custody and adjourned the case till September 29, 2020, for the hearing of the bail application. Meanwhile, the Maiduguri zonal office of the EFCC has arraigned one Alhaji Bunu Sheriff before Justice Fadawu Umaru of the Borno State High Court for fraud. The defendant was arraigned on one count of fraud to the tune of N845,300. Sheriff allegedly defrauded one Alhaji Musa Askira of the sum after he bought 79 bags of maize for N10,700 each. The victim alleged that Sherrif agreed to pay after he had sold the maize, but refused to pay him. The defendant pleaded not guilty. The prosecution counsel, A. U. Ringim, asked the court for a trial date and urged the court to remand the defendant in a correctional centre. The defence counsel, A. Mohammed, did not object to the prosecution’s request. Justice Umaru adjourned the matter till September 29, 2020, for the commencement of trial and remanded the defendant in prison.