Adelani Adepegba Amnesty International has flayed the Federal Government for failing to release the report of the Presidential Panel to Review Compliance of the Armed Forces with Human Rights Obligations and Rules of Engagement three years on. It described the development as a setback for the rule of law. Following reports by Amnesty International and other human rights organisations that the Nigerian military had committed  crimes under international law and other serious human rights violations, the then Acting President Yemi Osinbajo, set up the investigative panel to review compliance of the Armed Forces with human rights obligations and rules of engagement. AI  appeared before the panel and presented evidence and testified on behalf of victims. The panel submitted its report to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in  February 2018, but nothing has been heard about it since then. In a statement on Friday, the Director, Amnesty International Nigeria, Osai Ojigho, described the non-release of the report  as a gross display of contempt for victims. She noted that many Nigerians showed incredible courage to testify to the panel, in the hope that, at the end, it would lead to justice. “But three years is so long and too long for victims to continue waiting for the release of the panel’s report, which is a key step to justice for victims. “We are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to fulfill the promise he made in 2015 to end impunity by immediately releasing the report,” Ojigho said. She argued that the victims and the larger public  deserved to see and scrutinise the findings, adding that  such previous investigations had ended without any tangible outcome. The director further said “it is a marker of the lack of political will by Nigerian authorities to bring alleged perpetrators to justice. It is an abysmal failure, a devastating setback for rule of law that only perpetuates the culture of impunity which is so pervasive in Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com