The last weeks of August 2020 have been devastating for residents of Kebbi State as heavy rainfall, and the consequent flooding overran 11 Local Government Areas (LGAs), representing more than 50% of the State. The State Governor, Senator Atiku Bagudu listed the 11 LGAs affected by flooding in the State to include Argungu, Birnin Kebbi, Bunza, Suru, Koko-Besse, Yauri, Shanga, Bagudo, Maiyama, Jega and Dandi. The affected communities were areas, where the local economy was principally agrarian. Daily Trust newspaper reported that the State lost over 500,000 hectares – 450,000 hectares of it being for rice farms – to the floods. The farmers, unfortunately, lost their sorghum, millet, maize, and rice plantations worth N5 billion to the natural disaster. The Farmers are currently in a place of distress, and most of them, at breaking point, as the disaster had left them financially exposed, having destroyed their prized livelihoods. Speaking to Pulse.ng news blog, one of the farmers said; “we lost our farm produce and animals to the flood. A number of farmers here cultivated between 50 and 100 hectares of rice plantations producing hundreds of bags of paddy every rainy season and we never experienced this kind of disaster in the past.” A farmer, Libabatu Usman Kamba also told Daily Trust that “the losses recorded this year are so enormous that majority of smallholder farmers would not go back for this year’s dry season farming. The usual practice by most farmers is to re-invest what they realized from rainy season farming for dry season farming,” she said. “We are calling on (the) government to come to our aid. Many of us will be out of business if no intervention comes our way. Farmers don’t keep money, the more we make in the business the more we open more farmlands, that is the secret of the farming business otherwise you won’t last long in it,” Zuwaira Abubakar, another rice farmer in Argungu revealed to the newspaper. With a fertile soil profile, improved cultivation practices and committed productive farming population, Kebbi State has been the focal point for the Federal Government’s Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP), an initiative of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) launched to achieve local production sufficiency in the country. Lagos State also has a partnership to produce the “Lake (Lagos-Kebbi) Rice”. Regrettably, this year’s floods seemed poised to put cold water on this lofty rice revolution dream. Although the government has promised that the Kebbi State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) will distribute food and other relief items to the affected farmers and households to mitigate their suffering, it still will not be enough to soothe the emotional, psychological, and financial trauma the victims of this disaster are experiencing. It is for knowledge of this reality and outcomes that financial institutions world over instituted the agriculture insurance so those hardworking farmers would never have to look over their hectares of hard work and toil and lose hope of any form of return on their investment, even in the worst-case scenario. Insurance ensures that an individual’s investments in farms, crops, livestock, and supporting infrastructure are protected from financial losses to assorted kinds of disasters. It also serves as a means of wealth protection. It is noteworthy for farmers to choose insurers with the right financial capacity and experience to provide a comprehensive Agric insurance cover for their investments. This is where Leadway Assurance, Nigeria’s foremost insurer, which has been adding value to Nigerians for over five decades, comes in. Rice farmers located in Kebbi and other States of the Federation who purchased Leadway Assurance Company Agricultural Insurance crop protection policy and have their farms affected by flood will be compensated for the loss suffered as a result of the incident. With this crop insurance protection, they need not wait for any special intervention to enable them go back to the farm for the dry season program. The insurance compensation is expected to put the farmers back in the position they were before the occurrence of the loss and will plough them back into prosperity. The Leadway Agric insurance protects your farm produce, crops, poultry, fish farm, livestock, machinery, and equipment against losses from flood, fire, burglary/housebreaking, lightning, explosion, windstorm, impacts, earthquake, volcanic eruptions and even plane crashes. It is a policy that keeps dreams alive, and food security for the country assured. You can call Leadway Assurance professional advisors for further guidance via its virtual communication channels – 08129997115, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from an experienced insurance advisor by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me