Sodiq Oyeleke Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has announced that primary and secondary schools in the state will reopen from September 21. Fayemi, who disclosed this in a state-wide broadcast on Sunday evening, also directed that tertiary institutions in the state be opened to students from October 2, subject to each institution’s Governing Council decision and strict adherence to safety protocols to curb the spread of COVID-19. The Governor said, “Students in SSS II, JSS III, and Primary 6 are to resume on September 21, while students in SSS I, JSS II and Primary 5 and 4 are to resume from September 28. “Students in JSS I and Primary 1-3 are to resume on October 19, while pupils in Kindergarten and Nursery Schools are expected to resume on November 2, when more assurances of safety for their age bracket would have been established.” The governor noted that the decision to open more classes was taken because there has been no spike traceable to students in exit classes who are writing their certificate examinations. He said, “This shows that our preventive measures to safeguard them from being infected has been effective.” Fayemi noted that worship centres can now hold two services on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays while midweek services and night vigils are still prohibited. He said, “After a careful review and advice by the experts, I am glad to announce that worship centres can now hold two services on Friday, Saturday or Sunday as the case may be but mid-week activities and night vigils remain suspended for now. Other protocols and regulations concerning worship centres reopening still subsist.” On halls and event centres, Fayemi added, “Owners of halls and event centres may now be allowed to rent out their facilities but under no condition should such a facility contain more than 50 per cent of its normal capacity. “This is to allow for social distancing. Events centres are expected to observe all protocols prescribed for religious centres and to obtain certificate of readiness before opening.”