A council member of the Yoruba World Congress, Chief Tola Adeniyi, speaks to TOBI AWORINDE on the removal of the interim leader of the congress, Prof Banji Akintoye, and the recent controversy around its leadership There has been a lot of controversy surrounding the leadership of the Yoruba World Congress. Can you give some perspective on what has been happening? The YWC was founded between November 2018 and January 2019. It is a global organisation with leaders in Benin Republic, Togo, Cuba, countries in South America, and so on. On August 22, 2018, some (Yoruba) organisations in Ibadan (Oyo State) elected (Prof Banji) Akintoye as their leader. To confer some respectability around him, we allowed him to hold that title, which he accepted because he was a strong member of Afenifere. In YWC, he was made the interim leader of the organisation. We were having our meetings and, occasionally, he would go to Ibadan to address the members of the organisations that elected him Yoruba leader. Because he was one of us, sometimes, we would go with him for company. Those who appointed him Yoruba leader were actually not in the YWC, but we asked a few of them to carry out one or two assignments for us, though at junior level. Then, to our greatest surprise, we discovered that those who elected him Yoruba leader were being encouraged surreptitiously by Akintoye, more or less, to hijack the YWC. And it was clear that the Yoruba leader, even from the time of (Chief Obafemi) Awolowo, did not go beyond Ketu. The Yoruba leader was just for the Yoruba territory within Nigeria, not up to Benin Republic, Togo or Ghana; it was just ‘Yoruba leader’ here. However, we have the YWC as a global organisation, but it did not help matters because he (Akintoye) just liked the paraphernalia of office. He, maybe mischievously, didn’t allow the difference (between his roles) to sink in for those who were carrying him about and dancing: ‘Baba o!’ But our vision was clear: we are talking about the emancipation not only within Nigeria but all over the world. We know that we, the Yoruba, are a very great intellectual race, and we realise that, if the Yoruba all over the world could command the respect that is God-given, it would also rub off on Africans all over the world. That was the trajectory. What is your grouse about Akintoye? To cut a long story short, this man does not believe in class, borders or hierarchy. So, when we are discussing security, he would call strange faces to attend such a meeting. If we are discussing high-level (security), he would just call anybody. He keeps saying he is a father, and we say there is a difference between a father and a leader and that leadership is not a popularity contest. We kept educating him and he just wouldn’t change. The last straw was when we called a meeting of the Leaders Council and he went to smuggle in some of these boys or girls who were among the people that elected him leader in Ibadan. And we said, if anybody was going to be brought in, we had to vet the person. To our greatest surprise, at our August 25 meeting of the Leaders Council, especially the founders of the YWC, which was holding upstairs, we found out that this man had assembled about 20 people to come to the hall and he left us to go downstairs and sit with them. We were waiting upstairs for three to four hours; he didn’t come back. To our greatest shock, he wrote the minutes of the meeting and sent it straight to the press. It’s just like a university senate having a meeting and then the president of the senate sends (the minutes) directly to the press. I’ve never heard of an organisation or some generals meeting anywhere in the world and the minutes of their meeting would be sent to the media. We just thought that it didn’t appear the man wanted to learn, that we had tolerated him enough and we should remove him as the interim leader. But the YWC is intact; there is no crisis within the congress. The congress in Europe, the United States, South America and Canada is intact. But there are members of the YWC who have reportedly passed a vote of confidence in Akintoye…. It was those who elected him leader for the Yoruba that did that. They have nothing to do with the YWC. So, they are not members of the YWC? No. We have some that we give assignments to because we are all Yoruba. But they are not within the leadership structure of the YWC. We believe what he is doing is creating a situation that is not palatable and helpful to the Yoruba vision. In fact, google and look at the quality of those who say they are passing a vote of confidence. The Yoruba know and recognise a leader when they see one. The Yoruba say, ‘Eni to ba ni oun fe da so fun e, ko wo ti orun e (when somebody wants to give you clothes, look at what he is wearing first).’ What led up to the dissolution of the executive committee by Akintoye? There is no executive committee; this is where he got it wrong. We have the Leaders Council, then we have the Working Council, which is the executive and he doesn’t have the power to dissolve anything, to start with. Be that as it may, there is no executive to be dissolved. So, he couldn’t unilaterally (take such an action), and that has been his tendency of dictatorship. We would call a genuine meeting and get to the meeting to find strange faces that he had called. In fact, there was a meeting in Ibadan where some people he invited were saying, ‘Why is it you that would be inviting us to a meeting? Don’t you have a secretary general?’ And it was supposed to be a security meeting. We have always said, ‘You can’t be discussing security in the presence of strange people. Even if they are not strange, you can’t be discussing security in the presence of about 40 people.’ But that is his style; that is the way he runs his life. We believe he’s anathema to the safety and security of the Yoruba people. However, there is no crisis within the YWC. There is a misunderstanding and miscommunication regarding the YWC and the motley crowd that elected him Yoruba leader in Ibadan, which, as we speak, cannot even be given a (name) that ‘some people elected you leader in Ibadan.’ What is the name of the organisation? It would just be a connection of associations. That’s all. Are you one of those who supported his election as Yoruba leader? I wasn’t there. What is the process for checks and balances in the structure of the YWC? We have a strong constitution written by an 82-year-old veteran — a former don and corporate guru — which Akintoye just jettisoned because he doesn’t believe in class and structure. He just doesn’t believe in structure. What is the name of the person who wrote the constitution? Like I said, it is not our style to be mentioning the names of the engine room of the YWC. But he is the 82-year-old Dr Amos Arogundade, an insurance guru and much more. Can you highlight what the constitution says about the role of the YWC leader? The role of a leader is easy — lead the organisation and adhere to collective leadership; decisions should be reached collectively. The secretary general heads the secretariat, is the spokesperson for the organisation, is empowered to call meetings and so on. Others are treasurer, financial secretary, communications secretary and so on. We also have the Working Council; director of welfare, director of organisation, and so on. Constitutions all over the world are almost the same. The way organisations are run are, more or less, the same; they just change one or two words here and there, but the constitutions are the same. What happens now that a number of you have said Akintoye is no longer the interim leader? What we have resolved, for now, is collective leadership. In fact, when you are in a struggle for self-determination, you don’t really need to flaunt names. It’s only in the South that we make so much noise about who the leader is, who the president is, and so on. Like I said to someone, you see people bringing motorcycles to the South and hiding in bushes, but you would never know who sent them. There must be a leadership that is doing all this that we’re crying about. They are silent. They don’t expose their leadership; you don’t hear about them. But the problem with those of us around here is that you are living in a house where you have one husband and 1,000 wives, and you have some of the wives misbehaving, exposing everything they are doing and shouting at the top of their voice. The YWC just does not believe that is the way the leadership structure of a serious organisation that has a mission and vision for its people should be run. What is your response to people who say a development like this shows that the Yoruba are not united? Unfortunately, that is what it portrays, which is not so. When they say the Yoruba are not united, it is also not true because the Yoruba are united in a vision — 99.9 per cent of the Yoruba in Nigeria are united in the view that Nigeria is not treating them well. They also know that Nigeria is not treating anybody, including the Hausa, Igbo and Fulani, well. It is the structure of Nigeria that allows people to be roaming the streets, herding cows from Sokoto to Lagos on foot. The Maasai are nomadic people (in Kenya and Tanzania), but you cannot find any Maasai living in bushes, herding cattle on an empty stomach, or carrying guns all over the place. They’ve all been modernised. But with the structure we have, even a Maasai person in Nigeria would still be living in the bushes or forests, following cows. It is Nigeria that has killed competitive spirit. It is Nigeria that would tell you that, if you have three per cent, you will get admission into the university, but you may score 80 per cent and not get admission. So, the Yoruba, as a people, are united in recognising that they must be emancipated, developed and reclaim their cultural values. There is unity along that line. There might be differences in methodology, but that does not mean the Yoruba are not united. We are very united. Some monarchs have asked that Akintoye be removed as the leader. Can you tell us their complaints? They have said, with the rivalry, bickering and noisemaking, and given the way he emerged as Yoruba leader, it’s embarrassing to the Yoruba nation. There is a school of thought that says former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is allegedly behind the disagreement in the YWC due to his rumoured presidential ambition. Is he perhaps attempting to influence the YWC leadership? None of us in the YWC has any link with Tinubu or any politician for that matter. As a matter of fact, from inception, we swore that no member of the YWC, especially at the leadership level, should even associate with anybody who is in politics. If your son, cousin, brother or uncle is contesting for an election, you are not qualified to be in YWC. That’s as far as we have gone in ensuring that the distance is kept. And we have never approached any politician, to the best of my knowledge. But we do recognise that every Yoruba person has a right to aspire to anything, as long as the contraption called ‘Nigeria’ is still intact. To allege that Tinubu or any politician has anything to do with the YWC is just blackmail and, if that were to happen at all, maybe they should look in the direction of those showing videos of people dancing and singing at a political rally. Is there anyone you have in mind? There are videos being circulated all over the place of people singing, ‘Baba o!’ as if they are at a political rally. Maybe they are wining and dining with politicians or those who have politics in their blood. But count the YWC out. The YWC is made up of intellectuals and decent people; people of means. So, if you are talking of emancipating the Yoruba, restoring the values of the Yoruba and taking the Yoruba out of slavery, look at the calibre of people who are saying so. There are some who believe the disagreement in the YWC started with Akintoye proclaiming that the Yoruba nation would be formed soon. Is that true? The YWC did not say the Yoruba nation would be formed soon. What the YWC, of which I am a founder, said is the Yoruba would work with others in Nigeria to ensure a free and fair entity and to ensure that we would not fight anybody or allow our children to be slaughtered, but that if we were attacked, we would defend our land. The YWC has never talked about secession! If there is anything at all, it is among those who anointed him leader in Ibadan that you would find people bragging on the television and on radio that they are going to blow up the country. But you won’t find anybody in the YWC talking like that. If the disagreement continues, will you go to court? No, there is nothing to go to court about. Is it about property or money? We are not sharing anything. We rented a property. If the motley crowd that he had gathered want to stay in the buildings that we rented, so be it. We have gone beyond that. We don’t want to go to court with anybody, except if we are maligned and slandered. If anybody says nonsense about any leader of the YWC, of course, we will go to court. But the YWC is a global association. We are going on with our programmes. It has been reported that the YWC will announce a new leader soon. How soon? ‘Soon’ may not be in the next one year. Like I told you, the intellectually driven YWC is learning from other civilised people in the world. Did you know who the leader of the Jews was before they emancipated themselves and became one of the most powerful countries in the world? Did Moses announce who was with him when he led the Israelites out of Egypt? Do you know the leader of the Kaduna Mafia? Do you know the person sponsoring people and sending them to the southern part of the country to hide in uncompleted buildings and our forests? Does anyone talk about them, when none of the people carrying motorcycles have the capacity to buy an ordinary tyre? And you see them in their hundreds and thousands. Do you know the organisation or the leadership? Why should anyone be asking who is going to be the (next) leader of the YWC? Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com