Afeez Hanafi Property owners at the Federal Housing Estate Extension in Ikoto, Ijebu-Ode area of Ogun State have decried alleged encroachment on already allocated land within the estate by some suspected land grabbers. The Federal Government was said to have acquired the land from the state government during the Sheu Shagari-led administration and used it for a housing programme while the remaining part was allocated to individuals after payment. The invasion reportedly started in August 2020 when a family claimed ownership of the land after obtaining a court judgment. City Round gathered that the family mounted a signpost to that effect and started resurveying the land. Residents alerted the Abeokuta office of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to the development and some officials were sent to remove the signpost and replace it with the ministry’s, with a warning that “trespassers would be prosecuted.” One of the landlords, Mr Hakeem Akowonjo, told our correspondent that some hoodlums stormed the estate and removed the Federal Government’s signpost overnight. He said, “Recently, we discovered that some people have started trespassing on the Federal Government land. They have brought surveyors trying to introduce another layout and have removed the government’s signpost. The encroachment started from the extension of the estate where I live. We reported at the Federal Ministry of Works in Abeokuta. We were told that a letter has been written to the police but those people are still working on the land.” The Chairman, Federal Housing Estate Extension Community Development Association, Alhaji Olufemi Bakre, said the family from whom the government acquired the land complained that they were not adequately compensated. He said the estate CDA petitioned the Minister of works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, and the family was invited to a meeting with the ministry’s controller at Abeokuta. Bakre stated that the family ignored the warning to stay away from the land and removed the government’s signpost. He said, “We woke up one Sunday and saw a signpost on our estate, stating that the land has been given back to one family in Ilese. The family claimed that the government did not pay adequate compensation. After they got judgment from a customary court, we found out that it was one Mr Emiabata who represented the Federal Government without its knowledge or our consent. He used to work with the Federal Government. “The court delivered a judgment in favour of the family which makes them claim the land belongs to them whereas the land has already been allocated by the Federal Government. We have written letters to the Minister of Works and Housing and the ministry’s office at Abeokuta. The ministry met with the family but they insisted that they were not paid adequate compensation and that they wanted their land back. “The ministry told them adequate compensation was paid. Some officials came to the estate and removed the signpost mounted by those omo oniles (land grabbers) and put another one indicating that the land belongs to the government. But the hoodlums came one night and removed the signpost. “We reported back to the ministry at Abeokuta and they said they have tried their best. That is why we are crying out to the minister to intervene and save us from land grabbers. We have documents on the land allocated to us by the Federal Government.” The CDA Secretary, Mr Elochukwu Nwabueze, said the ministry at Abeokuta had been indifferent to their plight since the signpost was removed. He said, “Immediately they removed the government signpost, we alerted the controller at Abeokuta but the reply we got from the ministry was not encouraging. They said anyone who has land on the estate should secure it by putting up some structures. How can we secure the land when the omo oniles are all around the environment? They have resurveyed the land. “Before the ministry mounted the signpost, they told us they had gone to the Area Command and informed the police to arrest any trespassers. The suspects are known but nothing has been done.” Nwabueze alleged that the family must have connived with Emiabata to obtain the court judgment, adding that neither the Federal Government nor the residents were aware of the trial. A representative of the family, Mr Tosin Oshoniyi, who spoke to our correspondent on the telephone, said the land belonged to Lapekun, Kekereowo, Olone and Sogbamade royal family. He claimed that the Federal Government acquired the land within Ikoto from the state government for the housing estate scheme and later encroached on the part belonging to Ilese. Oshoniyi said, “The controller has invited us to his office in Abeokuta. The land belongs to the royal house in Ilese which shares a boundary with Ikoto. The ministry went beyond its gazette, encroached on Ilese land and started selling it. “We took Mr Emiabata who was among those selling the land on behalf of the Federal Government to court. We have obtained a judgment on that land. The controller begged us during the meeting. Our lawyer has written to him and we are expecting his response. The land belongs to us.” Asked if the family’s grouse was based on alleged insufficient compensation by the government, he said, “We have obtained a judgment and we don’t have a problem with anybody. Whoever wants to talk about it should take us to court.” The controller, Mr Rotimi Akintola, said the land was acquired in 1982 and allocated in 1996, adding that the family had no grounds to lay claim to it. He said, “If they are claiming the government did not compensate them, it is another thing entirely. There is what we call a statutory bar. If a land is acquired and the original land owner didn’t protest against the acquisition after 12 years, that means they have slept over their right. “I don’t know what they are agitating for now. Maybe because an expressway has passed through the place, they feel the value of the land will increase and decide to agitate to see if the government will give them some concession. The whole land there has been allocated.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  