Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Gunmen in a fresh attack on Southern Kaduna communities allegedly killed eight persons and injured many others. This was despite the peace efforts to end the persistent killings in the area. The National Public Relations Officer, Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, Mr Luka Binniyat, made this known in a statement on Friday. Binniyat said the attack took place from September 8, 2020 to the early hours of Friday, 11,2020. The statement claimed that gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen in the early hours of Friday invaded Manyi-Mashin village, Zango-Kataf Local Government Area of the state, killed two persons and burnt houses in the village. He, however, hailed the men of Operation Safe Haven who promptly responded before the attackers fled the scene of the incident. The SOKAPU spokesperson said, “In the early morning of September 11, 2020, Manyi-Mashin village in  Zamandabo ward, Atyap Chiefdom, Zangon Kataf Local Government Area in Southern Kaduna, was invaded by hordes of  Fulani armed men  who burnt down  almost all the houses in the village, looting and carting away valuables. “Two persons were burnt in their homes beyond recognition: They are Cecilia Ishaya, 62, a widow and mother of six children and Iliya Sunday, 56, who left behind eight children. “This was after Fulani militia on September 8, 2020 laid ambush for three Atyap youths from Atakmawei village in same  Zamandabo Ward in Atyap Chiefdom,  as they went to clear weed in their sugarcane farm about a kilometer from their village. “Suddenly, armed herdsmen came from hiding and struck.  They descended on them with daggers and machetes. Anthony Magaji, 25, a final year HND student with Nuhu Bamali Polytechnic, Zaria, was hacked down. They axed his neck and head with macabre wounds and killed him instantly.” Binniyat stated that on September 8, 2020, an attack was launched again by suspected Fulani militia at Kitsarapang village in Kizachi Chiwo of Kizachi community, Tsam Chiefdom in Kauru. He added, “The attack claimed the life of Emmanuel David Yohanna, 13, leaving two persons grievously with gunshots. They are: Sunday Zango Stephen, 48 and Zakka John, 23. The two victims are now receiving treatment at a hospital in Jos. “Meanwhile, three decomposing corpses were found on Kaduna-Abuja highway on Sunday, September 6, 2020. They were among four persons that were abducted during a brazen operation last week at Maraban Rido, a suburb of Kaduna under Chikun LGA all in Southern Kaduna. “They were killed after ransom was paid for their release. Among them was Pius Gargai, 20, married with a child. He was a nephew of the 1st Vice-President of SOKAPU, Mr Dio Maisamari. The young man was buried last Wednesday in his native home, Kufana, Kajuru LGA. The names of the other victims are yet to reach us. “These bring to eight the number of our members grisly killed by (suspected) armed Fulani militia within five days in Southern Kaduna in an ongoing genocide against the natives of Southern Kaduna.” The Kaduna State Police Command has yet to confirm the latest incident as the Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, could not be reached. He had also yet to reply to a text message sent to his mobile phone as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com