Ade Adesomoju, Abuja Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja, on Thursday, withdrew from two suits seeking to disqualify the All Progressives Congress’ governorship candidate in the forthcoming September 19, 2020 election in Edo State, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The judge, who ordered that the case files be returned to the Chief Judge of the court, Justice John Tsoho, for re-assignment to another judge, said he took the decision because of a second petition against him over the case. The APC, had through its National Secretary, John Akpanudoedehe, sent an August 20, 2020, petition against Justice Taiwo, requesting that two cases involving Ize-Iyamu pending before him be withdrawn over his alleged affiliation to Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, who belongs to the rival Peoples Democratic Party. In one of the two suits referred to in the petition, two APC members, Momoh Abdul-Razak and Zibiri Muhizu, asked the court to disqualify the party’s governorship candidate Ize-Iyamu, and his running mate, Mr Audu Faniyi. In the other suit, the plaintiff, who is also an APC member, Charles Ude, sought Ize-Iyamu’s disqualification as the party’s candidate on the grounds that the June 22, 2020, primary that produced him was not recognised by the then court-recognised acting National Chairman of the party, Victor Giadom. The judge said the petitioners launched unjustifiable attacks on his integrity and that of the judiciary in their petition. He said, “The contents of the said petition are wicked and unsubstantiated. It is very disturbing that counsel would write this petition and even back it with an affidavit. “For the record, I do not have any affiliation, personal or political, with any of the parties in this case.” The lawyers, who appeared for the respondents in the case on Thursday, including Roland Otaru (SAN), Akinlolu Kehinde (SAN) and Babatunde Ogala, dissociated themselves from the petition. The judge ordered the cases to be returned to the Chief Judge for reassignment to another judge of the court. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 