Gbenga Odogun The Kogi State Police Command has confirmed the killing of one person while three others were kidnapped by gunmen. The Commissioner of Police, Ayuba Ede, who confirmed the incident, said the gunmen struck on Thursday at Royal Garden Relaxation Spot, along Ayingba-Ankpa Highway, Egume community. Earlier, an eyewitness account had told our correspondent that the gunmen allegedly dressed in Fulani attire stormed the open arena of the Royal Garden where people were relaxing and started shooting indiscriminately as customers scampered for safety in different directions. It was gathered that the deceased, Anthony Monday, a cashew dealer From Ate-Iji Anyigba, was struggling to escape when he was shot, while one of his friends sustained gunshot wounds. Our correspondent gathered that the hotel manager’s 18-month-old boy, a brother of the deceased and one lady were among those whisked away to an unknown destination by the kidnappers. The kidnappers were said to have contacted families of the kidnapped victims and demanded a ransom. The National President of Egume Ome Descendants Union, Alhaji Muhammed Ibrahim, expressed shock over the ugly incident and appealed to the police to ensure the arrest and prosecution of the perpetrators. The state Commissioner of Police, Ede Ekpeji, said the police had launched a manhunt for the hoodlums. He added, “I received a report from Egume Division, that three armed men attacked Royal Garden Relaxation Spot, shooting indiscriminately. “Immediately, the DPO mobilised operatives to the scene where he met one yet-to-be-identified body lying in a pool of blood. My men moved him to the hospital where he was confirmed dead. The body was deposited at the hospital for autopsy.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 