Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Some gunmen in the early hours of Sunday invaded Buda community in the Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State and killed three persons. The National President of Adara Development Association, Awemi Maisamari, who confirmed the attack, said scores of persons were also kidnapped during the incident. Maisamari, in a statement in Kaduna on Sunday, claimed that the attack took place at about 2am when the natives were asleep. The fresh attack occurred few days after the Justice Isa Aliyu-led Commission of Inquiry into the incessant violent crises in the Kajuru LG submitted its report to Governor Nasir El-Rufai. Kajuru is located in Southern Kaduna. The attack was coming when a peace process was ongoing in the troubled southern part of the state. The ADA President said it was becoming clearer that the purported dialogue was serving as a diversion to enable the attackers to continue their attacks. The association said, “Today, Sunday, 6th September, 2020 at 2am, the Adara community of Buda, in Buda ward of Kajuru LGA came under another deadly attack from suspected Fulani militia. “The premeditated and unprovoked attack claimed the lives of three people, namely Rev. Alubara Audu, 45, with five children; Adamu Tata, 40, with four children; and Ishaku Peter, 37, with five children. Furthermore, the following persons were abducted: Sani Peter, 25 and Esther Sani Peter, 20. “At around the same time, the terrorists also abducted five people from neighboring Kemara Rimi community of Buda ward. They are: Ojo Aminu, 35;  Danfulani Makaranta, 37; Namiji Gwamna, 36; Ali Musa, 36 and Grace Matthew, 16.” The association said though “these callous and barbaric attacks sometimes abate, they never really stop in Adara community.” It said, “On Sunday, 16th August, 2020, another fatal attack occurred at Kallah village on the banks of River Kaduna. “This resulted in the death of Mr Danladi Abashi, a 50-year-old farmer who ventured near the villages that were invaded and are still occupied by Fulani herdsmen in the Kallah/Gefe/Libere area of Kajuru LGA. His body was only recovered with the help of the police because the herdsmen disallowed Adara people from even approaching the occupied enclave. “Similarly, the incidents of abductions of innocent people for ransom are also continuing. On 27th August, 2020, five incidents of kidnapping occurred, including that of Daniel Shuaibu and Abednego Paul from their residence at Maraban Kajuru. “During the operation, Mr Sunday Barau was shot and injured and the abductees are still with their abductors because his helpless family has been unable to meet their demands. The Kaduna State Government, in a statement by the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, described the attacks as condemnable sheer evil. The statement titled, “KDSG condemns bandit attacks in Giwa, Igabi, Chikun, Kauru, Kajuru LGAs, praises peace initiative in Jema’a LGA,” quoted Governor Nasir El-Rufai as condoling with the families that lost their loved ones. It added, “Security agencies have been directed to double up and intensify operations against bandits and raids on their hideouts. “Our communities are strongly urged to stand together to confront criminality. Bandits should not be allowed to inflict such pain and then have their actions be allowed to divide their victims along religious and ethnic lines. This criminality is an attack on our unity and collective well-being.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com