Mr Godwin Obaseki, Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the forthcoming governorship election in the state, tells ADEYINKA ADEDIPE and some select journalists about his squabbles with a former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, his first term in office and others. Why should the people of Edo State re-elect you for another term? When I came into office, I had a social contract with my people and the underlying principle of that contract is to work for them and protect their best interests. To put their interests, yearnings and aspirations first has underpinned the focus of my administration. For the past three years and nine months, I have, by the grace of Almighty God and the support of my people, done my best to uphold their interests against all else. It is consequent on these that I believe that my people have rallied in large numbers to support me, giving me the assurance that they would troop out en masse to re-elect me on September 19, 2020. You were said to have supervised the alleged act of vandalism at the State House of Assembly Complex when the government said it wanted to renovate it. Why did you do that? First and foremost, you need to recognise the principle of separation of powers between the legislature and the executive. So, it is wrong to give the impression that it is the executive that takes decisions for the legislature. Long before those individuals, whose seats had been declared vacant, made the lawless move of trying to stage a coup, the lawmakers had long moved their sitting to the old Legislative Chamber, as a result of the need for the maintenance of the Anthony Enahoro Complex. It was perhaps because the complex was inactive due to the fact that maintenance was slowly beginning, that those individuals tried to carry out the desecration of democracy. That would probably be the reason why the legislators accelerated the process of renovating the place to prevent such illegal activities. In essence, the action of those lawless individuals might have motivated the leadership of the House to accelerate the renovation work at the complex. In any case, it must be stated that even the decision to speed up work at the complex was not made by me but by the leadership of the House of Assembly, led by the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Francis Okiye. Why did you and a former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, fall out? When I became governor, we had an understanding of how we were going to run the state. We had agreed to put an end to the use of non-state actors in revenue collection. These persons had been harassing women in markets. We had young men who didn’t respect the enigies and onogies (traditional rulers); they took over land assets and sold a plot to three to five people. They went about with guns and constituted a nuisance. Some people also came and promised young people jobs abroad, only for the young people to make journeys to Europe through Libya and the Mediterranean Sea. The whole place was crisis-ridden. Nobody wanted to come to Edo to invest. I said we couldn’t continue this way. We needed to change the status quo. I barred thugs from the roads and markets and ensured that they stopped harassing market women and other persons in the state. But some of the leaders said they would have none of that because, according to them, they helped me get into the office. They didn’t help me. The people voted for me and God helped me. As for sharing of the state’s money, I insisted that we must use the money for the people and change their lives with it. Crude oil prices were low and are still low. There was a lot to do. Debts had piled up. There was work on the ground to be done and if we used the available funds to entertain politicians, there would be nothing left to work for the people. I said no to them. I came to serve God and my people. Whatever is available to us, we would manage it to work for the people. And today, many of our people are happy. Pensioners get their pay at the end of every month. They don’t protest anymore. As at the time I assumed office, they were always at Ring Road, adorned in black attire, crying that they had not been paid. These are old people with families. I asked, ‘How will we be sharing money in government while we haven’t addressed this sort of challenge’. I came to work pro bono for government for seven years. Oshiomhole said this himself. I don’t see him as my godfather. He helped me just as I helped him, even before he became a governor. I called people, raised money and helped him to become governor. That relationship is not godfather-godson relationship. When I said I wanted to run for office, he reciprocated and helped me. We moved together to campaign. I staked my money on it and got friends to fund my election. He didn’t pick me up from the roadside, gave me clothing and put me in Government House. That was not the case. From what he has done from the point when he became the national chairman of the APC, he doesn’t seem to be the same person I worked with. It also goes to show that he was hiding these tendencies from us before now. When we analysed his actions, it dawned on us that this was what he meant all this while when he was fighting godfathers. He called the late Tony Anenih a godfather and said a lot about him. We agreed with him. When he became the APC national chairman, he became worse than a godfather; he became a political bully. Nobody could talk where he was. Your proclamation and the subsequent inauguration of nine members of the Assembly out of 24 members set off a crisis in the state; why was it necessary to exclude others? You may need some enlightenment on what a proclamation actually is. A proclamation is a document issued by the governor that provides the legal basis for the inaugural sitting of a legislative house. So the talk of proclamation at night really does not arise. The facts are that a proclamation was issued by me and the House sat and elected its principal officers and all other members-elect were subsequently invited by their colleagues to be sworn in. They stayed away from office on the instruction of their godfather, who relocated them to Abuja. They refused to come to represent their constituents who voted them to provide legislative representation. Again, I may need to restate here that you need to understand the principle of separation of powers between the executive and the legislature. Though I issued the proclamation, according to the provisions of our constitution, the decision to hold the inaugural sitting was independently taken by the House of Assembly. READ ALSO: Customs raise the alarm over terrorist camps in Abuja, Kogi, Nasarawa It may also be worthy of mention here that the proclamation I issued has been validated by a court judgment, in Suit no. PHC/PH/CS/159/19: Hon. Yekini O. Idiaye and Anor vs the Clerk of the National Assembly and 5 Ors, where the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt gave a final judgment on the 12th of September, 2019 and held that the Edo State House of Assembly was properly inaugurated on the 17th day of June, 2019 and that the House was sitting and carrying out its functions. One of the allegations against you is that you didn’t complete some of the projects started by your predecessor in office. Why is that? This is absolutely false. Most of the projects of the previous administration are the outcome of my work as Chairman, Economic Team in the previous administration, and we continued with many of them. In some cases where some of these projects were not being properly executed, some structural adjustments were made to correct them and ensure the sustainability of the projects. What is delaying the completion of the refinery project the state government is involved in? We signed a Memorandum of Understanding with a private sector investor, on the Edo Refinery and Petrochemical project. I am glad to announce to you that the project is over 70 per cent complete. We contributed N700m as project support fund for the project to accelerate its realisation. The pace of work has been phenomenal. We are excited that this noble milestone has been achieved by the government in such a short period of time. The Presidency recently sent emissaries to Edo State to inspect the project and get a first-hand assessment of the level of work done and they were impressed with what they saw and the extent of local content contribution to the realisation of the project. The project is designed in such a way that it houses a fabrication yard which would be a training ground for youths in Edo State and it will create local capacity for refinery building and installation. The MoU with the Chinese consortium working on the project also includes a clause for the building of a Department of Petroleum Engineering in the state-owned university, Ambrose Alli University, to deepen the local content drive of my administration in the oil and gas industry. Some people have alleged that you govern with an iron fist and have been intolerant of other people’s views. What is your reaction to that? We believe that the people should be allowed to be the judge of the character of the person they employed. I serve over four million Edo people. I care more about how they feel and not by the judgment of a few people who are saying this because we have refused to open the people’s treasury to them. I know your newspaper has an intelligence team; you can send them to the field to collect data on how the people feel about me and my team. I am certain you will get the verdict that the people love all we have done for them. We have a 70 per cent positive rating. The people know that we are serving them. We are humane and have a human face. We have liberated them from thugs, oppressive extortionists and others who used to prey on them. It is these few people, these oppressors, whom we have freed our people from, that are complaining. Your opponents have said that while you are good at signing Memoranda of Understanding, your government does not always turn them into concrete projects. How would you respond to this? There are numerous projects which we have delivered in the last three years and nine months with our MoUs, which is the initial step which any serious government uses to engage private investors and development partners for project development. Some of the projects we have executed through MoUs include the state’s broadband network infrastructure project, for which a Memorandum of Understanding was signed with MainOne, Nigeria’s leading cable company, for laying of 400km fibre-optic cables to drive Internet connectivity. This would, among other things, boost the state’s technology ecosystem. We also have the MoU between Mixta Africa and the Edo Development and Property Agency on behalf of the state government, for the development of the 1,451-unit Emotan Garden Estate project, which sits on a 70-hectare land in Upper Sokponba axis of Benin City. The first phase of the estate is 100 per cent complete and home owners have moved into their properties. Work is progressing on the second phase. Aside from this, there is the much-celebrated MoU with Ossiomo Independent Power Plant for the 55MW CCTEC-Ossiomo Power Project, to provide electricity to public facilities such as the state secretariat, Government House, Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, hospitals and many more public facilities. The project is ready for inauguration. There is a major MoU with a Chinese Consortium for the Edo Refinery and Petrochemical Project, for which a 6000bpd Modular Refinery plant is on the verge of completion. The project is to be expanded to a 30,000bpd plant. The project is expected to meet 20 per cent of Nigeria’s diesel demands and make Nigeria self-sufficient in Low Pour Fuel Oil, also known as black oil, used in industries. Then we have the MoU signed between EDPA and EDLP Nigeria Limited for the development of discount malls across the state. The first of such malls is operational at the Sokponba Road axis of the state. More are to be built in Ugbowo, Ugbiyoko and Ekpoma in the state. Fresh produce from local farmers are mopped up by these malls and sold there. There are other MoU projects that are still in the works such as the Benin Enterprise Park. The Anchor investor is ready to move into site, but for the COVID-19 pandemic which slowed the pace of work. There is also the Benin River Port, where a lot of work is ongoing to prepare the necessary infrastructure to give rise to the project, as we await regulatory nod to proceed. The artery road is being dualised and a lot more is happening in the background. Marine Police base is ready and eight gunboats have been purchased and donated to the police. Ekehuan Road, the main artery to the port site is being dualised to ease movement. We do MoUs because we understand the language of public-private partnerships and that has made all the difference in the way we deliver our legacy projects and advance the task of industrialising the state. There is an allegation that your government is stoking violence ahead of the election while accusing the opposition of being behind the violence. What is your reaction to that? This is absolutely false. Like I always say, you don’t have to take my word for it. If your newspaper should send people for an independent and unbiased survey, you would find out that we have 80 per cent of the voters and the people committed to my re-election. We also have a groundswell of support from Edo people in the Diaspora, within and outside the country. Therefore, it is in my best interest that the process is peaceful and calm, so that all these people can go out, exercise their franchise and re-elect me. On the contrary, it is the APC that knows for a fact that it doesn’t control up to 20 per cent of the electorate in the state and is heading for certain defeat that is stoking violence, causing chaos, attacking innocent citizens, residents and members of the Peoples Democratic Party. They are also planning other underhand, illegal, criminal and undemocratic tactics to derail the process. We are however convinced that the President is committed to having a peaceful poll in Edo State. The Independent National Electoral Commission has, so far, rebuffed pressure from the APC in Edo State and the police have indicated their commitment to be impartial. With all of these, we are certain of a peaceful election. We urge the public to disregard all the fear mongering and come out on Election Day to perform their civic responsibility. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] Slow poison: Harmful particles in ‘powerful’ sex-enhancing herbs unknown to users Why did you not continue with projects like Storm Water and Edo Specialist Hospital inherited from the previous administration? The projects are ongoing. It is completely false that we abandoned them. Though some of the projects had structural defects, we have amended these and continued work on them. For instance, the Edo Specialist Hospital is functional today and as I speak, it is treating patients. The Storm Water Project is ongoing as well. All these claims are repeated lies by the opposition, which has no substantive criticism against this administration. Your chief of staff, some of your commissioners and other top officials have left your administration in curious circumstances, and many people have used this to fault your style of leadership. How will you react to this? This is politics and different people seek different alliances. There is nothing strange about that. In all, the number of people who resigned from the government is not up to five per cent of the total number of appointees. For me, it is not significant. You worked with Oshiomhole for eight years, so why are you trying so hard to extricate yourself from his government and portray it as a failed administration? Yes, I worked with Oshiomhole for eight years and I did so pro bono, in service to Edo people. It is consequent upon these that I have steps to emplace reforms in various aspects of our society to ensure that the mistakes of that administration are not continued or repeated. For these, we have no apologies to make to anyone. These are done for the benefit of our people as we are committed to their welfare. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 