PETER DADA and OLUFEMI OLANIYI The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo State, Mr Eyitayo Jegede ( SAN), has boasted that the party will defeat Governor Rotimi Akeredolu at the poll. Jegede, who lost the governorship primary to Akeredolu in 2016, said the APC administration would come to an end in the state in any credible election. He spoke while speaking with journalists on Friday at the Government House in Ibadan, Oyo State, after the meeting of the PDP National Campaign Council for the Ondo State Governorship Election. The meeting was presided over by Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde. Jegede claimed that the electorate in Ondo State was on the side of the opposition party and ready to vote out the ruling party. He warned against the use of violence and electoral malpractices that could subvert the people’s will. He said, “We are set for the election. They said we were not ready in 2019 but we overwhelmed them. This time round, we are going to overwhelm them again by the grace of God. “What happened in 2016 will not repeat itself because in 2016, we had internal conflict but we are united now. The people of Ondo State have seen the negative effects of the APC government. Speaking at the event, Makinde said the meeting was to strategise and “put our house in order ahead of the Ondo State governorship election.” Meanwhile, Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has asked his supporters not to allow the opposition party to rig the October 10 governorship election. The governor, who is the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, stated this on Saturday at the inauguration of the party campaign in Akure, the Ondo State capital. Top party leaders at the event included the party’s National Caretaker Committee Chairman and Yobe State Governor, Mr Mai Mala Buni; and the governors of Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Ekiti, Kebbi, Nasarawa, Kano, Bornu, Kwara and Plateau states. Others were members of the national and state assemblies, as well as ministers. Speaking, Akeredolu asked party members to be watchful of their votes and not allow the opposition to rig the election. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  