Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin Four Fulani men trading in Kwara and Oyo states were, on Thursday, arraigned before a Kwara State Magistrates’ Court for allegedly robbing a farmer, Hassan Umar, of Gwanara in the Baruten Local Government Area of the state of N1.5m. The prosecution alleged that the four traders, Mallami Mohammed, 35, from the Kaiama Fulani camp; Yale Bello, 37, from Ilesa Baruba; Ali Umar, 31, a cattle herder at the Bwen Fulani camp, all in Kwara State; and Abubakar Aliyu, 28, from Sepeteri in Oyo State, conspired and robbed Hassan and his son, Shamsudeen Sheu, of N1.5m with guns and other weapons. The accused persons are facing two counts of conspiracy and armed robbery contrary to sections 6(B) and 1(2) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act, Cap R11, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The Police First Information Report indicated that Hussein Umar reported at the Gwanara Police Station that his brother, Hassan, and his son, Shamsudeen Sheu were attacked by some persons with guns around 11pm on April 11, 2020. The report quoted Hussein as saying, “After the gunshots, which lasted about 30 minutes, I went to my brother’s compound and met him and his son in their pool of blood, having sustained gunshots injuries. “I rushed the victims to hospital, where they informed me that some hoodlums armed with guns and other weapons invaded their house and robbed them of the sum of N1.5m at gunpoint.” The court did not take the plea of the accused persons. However, the police prosecutor, Inspector Saliu Issa, in an ex parte motion, urged the court to order the detention of the accused persons pending the completion of police investigation on the matter. Chief Magistrate Oladosu Abayomi ordered that the accused persons be remanded in the Federal Correctional Centre, Madala, Ilorin. He adjourned the case till September 28, 2020, for further mention. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 