Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Federal Government has put the expenditure ceiling of the Presidency’s expenditure in the 2021 budget at N10bn. This is against the N15.3bn allocated for the same purpose in the revised 2020 budget. The Deputy Director (Information), State House, Attah Esa, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday titled “Agencies in the Presidency hold 2021 budget consultations.” Esa, in the statement, said the Permanent Secretary, State House, Mr Tijjani Umar, on Saturday led the 2021 budget bilateral meeting between government agencies under the Presidency and officials of the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning. He quoted Umar as saying that the preparation of the 2021 budget estimates takes into consideration the policies and strategies contained in the 2021-2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper, which is the Federal Government’s pre-budget statement. He said Umar also explained that in line with the directive issued by the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, the annual budget was being prepared using the Zero-Based Budget approach and in compliance with the government’s policy thrust as articulated in the MTEF/FSP and Nigeria Economic Sustainability Plan. The statement read, “Citing a September 1, 2020 circular issued by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, the Permanent Secretary, State House, said MDAs had been directed to work assiduously to conclude the budget bilateral meetings as scheduled in order to get the 2021 budget ready for transmission to the National Assembly. “The latest budget circular issued by the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning put the expenditure ceiling of the 2021 pre-bilateral proposal for the Presidency at N10bn compared with N15.3bn of the revised 2020 budget passed by the National Assembly.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com