Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Nigeria and India have worked out strategies to strengthen the bilateral relations between both countries, especially on economic development, trade and investment, counter-terrorism, defence and maritime security around the Gulf of Guinea. This was contained in a joint communiqué issued on Wednesday by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after a virtual meeting on Tuesday between the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, and India’s Minister of External Affairs, S. Jaishanka. Both sides recalled their extensive cooperation in the field of defence training and capacity building and expressed satisfaction that it was expanding to newer areas such as defence equipment support, medical and maintenance services, sharing of research and development expertise for counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency, and regular exchange of information. The two ministers noted that the next meeting of the Joint Defence Cooperation Committee would hold later this year in Abuja. The communique partly read, “The two ministers acknowledged ongoing collaborative efforts through information sharing between the Indian and Nigerian Navies and increase of surveillance for maritime security in the Gulf of Guinea, through collaboration between Indian and Nigerian Navies. “The ministers urged the armed forces of both countries to continue to work together in the on-going efforts to counter terrorism, insurgency and piracy.” With a bilateral trade turnover of $13.9 billion in 2019/20, India is Nigeria’s largest trading partner, and Nigeria is India’s largest trading partner in Africa. Both sides also agreed to expand cooperation in Information Technology, defence and solar energy projects to be executed through Indian Line of Credit. The ministers reiterated their commitments to expeditiously conclude pending agreements between the two countries. They also expressed satisfaction with the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Outer Space last month.