Peter Dada, Akure At least five persons sustained varying degrees of injury while some  vehicles were vandalised when supporters of the candidates of the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party clashed in Oba Akoko, in the Akoko South West Local Government Area of the state on Wednesday. The incident occurred when the convoy of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu met with the convoy of the PDP candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, in the town. Eyewitnesses said the socioeconomic activities in the area were paralysed for several hours as supporters of both men exchanged one another in acts of violence. Spokesperson for the Akeredolu/Ayedatiwa Campaign Organisation, Mr Richard Olatunde, accused Jegede’s supporters of starting the fight. He said, “Governor Akeredolu and the campaign train of the APC were on their way to Ikare-Akoko, when the thugs struck and attacked the convoy. “The hoodlums set ablaze the branded campaign vehicle donated to the Akeredolu/Aiyedatiwa Campaign Organisation by Ambassador Sola Iji.” However, The Head, Media Research, Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation, Mr Samuel Fasua, in response alleged that Jegede’s convoy was attacked by Akeredolu’s supporters. Later, Jegede who spoke with journalists at his campaign office in Akure, said the incident was an assassination attempt on his life and the lives of those in his entourage. He added that no fewer than 15 vehicles were vandalised in his convoy, while some members of his party were allegedly injured by the political thugs. He said, “For the records, our campaign schedule which was submitted to the police command in Akure which authorises us to be in that local government as against the unlawful presence of Governor Akeredolu at the same venue.” Jegede further explained that immediately after the attack, he put a call across to Governor Akeredolu to inform him about the incident. “He (Akeredolu) expressed shock and told me that he was in the front vehicle; he did not know what was going on at the back. He said he would caution his boys,” Jegede said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com