Dr Rotimi Adesanya Vaccines are as important for older adults as it is in children. As we get older, the immune system weakens and it can be more difficult to fight off infections. They are likely to get diseases like the flu, pneumonia, shingles and more recently the COVID-19 diseases. They are also more likely to have complications that can lead to long-term illness, hospitalisation, and even death. Those that have ongoing health condition like diabetes or heart disease needs to get vaccinated. Vaccines can protect one from serious diseases (and related complications) so one can stay healthy as age is increasing. Getting vaccinated can help keep one, the family and the community healthy due to herd immunity. Vaccines help keep diseases from spreading to people who may not be able to get certain vaccines like newborn babies, this is due to community immunity. Adults need vaccines for several reasons. For example: Some vaccines are recommended only for adults, who are more at risk for certain diseases — like shingles. Protection from childhood vaccines wears off over time so one need additional doses of certain vaccines to stay protected. They may not have gotten some of the newer vaccines that are now available. Some viruses, like the virus that causes the flu, can change over time. They may be at increased risk for diseases based on travel plans, jobs, or health conditions. Adults need to keep their vaccinations up to date because immunity from childhood vaccines can wear off over time. Vaccination is one of the most convenient and safest preventive care measures available. Adults Vaccinations are not covered by the National programme on Immunisation. Vaccines are available at the hospitals and some pharmacy outlets. Vaccines are some of the safest therapies around. Although all therapies, including vaccines, pose a rare chance of side effects, for most people, the risks from the diseases are far greater than the risks from the vaccines. The American Geriatrics Society’s Health in Aging Foundation recommends the following vaccinations for older adults. Flu Shot Flu shot Protects against influenza viruses. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends any type of flu shot licensed for persons aged ≥65 years while everyone should get a flu vaccine, the CDC notes that it is especially important for the following people to get flu shots because they are at high risk for having serious flu-related complications: anyone who is 65 years of age or older, nursing home residents, people with serious health conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, asthma, lung disease or HIV. Caregivers for older adults should also get vaccinated to avoid spreading the flu. Pneumococcal Shot: The pneumococcal vaccine protects against serious and potentially fatal pneumococcal infections. It’s also known as the pneumonia vaccine. Pneumococcal infections are caused by the bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae and can lead to pneumonia, septicaemia (a kind of blood poisoning) and meningitis. At their worst, they can cause permanent brain damage, or even kill. Its given to anyone 65 years or older. Two different types of pneumococcal vaccine are available. They are called pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV)13 and pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV)23. Tetanus/Diphtheria Shot: It protects against two potentially deadly bacterial infections. A second, and different, form of the vaccine (called “DPT”) protects against tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (Whooping cough). It is now recommended to get a one-time dose of the Tdap version for those who are 65 or older to be protected from whooping cough. It is given once every 10 years. Shingles (Herpes Zoster) Shot: The Recombinant Zoster Vaccine (RZV) and the older live zoster vaccine protect against the development of shingles. The recombinant zoster vaccine reduces the risk by 97 per cent in persons 50 years of age or older, and about 90 per cent in persons 70 years of age or older. The vaccine protects against the development of chronic pain from shingles (also called postherpetic neuralgia. The recombinant zoster vaccine requires two doses with the second dose given any time between 2-6 months after the first dose. If more than 6 months have elapsed since the first dose, it’s okay to get the second dose at the next available time. Hepatitis B Vaccine: Protection of older persons, particularly those with diabetes against hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is of growing concern because of increased reports of many Hepatitis B positive diabetics. The elderly will also benefit from other vaccines that address diseases that are categorized as public health crises- these are mainly communicable diseases like Hepatitis A, Meningitis, Typhoid Fever, Yellow Fever (especially when travelling to countries with high prevalence) and COVID-19 Vaccine. Above all the elderly are to eat balanced diet with a considerable amount of fruits and vegetables as these have been proven to be more protective and preventive than any other measures. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com