Sampson Itode An autopsy conducted on the corpse of the late Chima Ikwunado, a Rivers State auto mechanic who worked at the Ikokwu spare parts market in Port Harcourt, has revealed that he died of extreme torture and not high sugar level as initially claimed by the police. The autopsy result, which was recently released, was signed by the police pathologist, Dr Musa Stephens and a pathologist hired by Chima’s family, Dr Chukwuegbo Cornell. The report read, “Cause of death in my opinion: Haemorrhagic shock secondary to multiple severe soft tissue trauma with extensive haemorrhage (into the soft tissues). “There are also multiple discrete superficial burn injuries located mostly on the back, 1.2-1.5cm in diametre circular to oval shaped, involving over two-thirds of the area of the back, with crusted edges and necrotic floor. “There are multiple foci identified on the body: (1) Right knee joint, extending into the right ankle joint; (2) Left ankle (with open wound); (3) Right shoulder area extending to the upper half of the arm.” Reacting to the result, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Nnamdi Omoni, said the matter was already in court so the police could not comment on it. “The matter is already before the court so we don’t need to bring it to public space again. Hence, we lack the competence to comment on it,” he said. Ikwunado died in police custody of the Eagle Crack cell in Mile 1 Police Division, Port Harcourt, days after he was arrested on December 19, 2019, alongside his four colleagues who drove against traffic in two customers’ cars. The late Chima and his friends were labelled cultists, and armed robbers by the operatives after their arrest but a magistrates’ court in Port Harcourt on January 29, 2020, discharged and acquitted them following a report from the Directorate of Public Prosecutions, which stated that the suspects had no case to answer. The owners of the cars approached the police to recover their vehicles, saying that the vehicles were not stolen but were being test driven by the mechanics, a revelation which the police dismissed. Following Chima’s death in custody and protests by civil society groups, the Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, in June 2020 promised to carry out investigation into the matter and prosecute any officers found culpable. Four cops, Ayogu Fidelis, Eke Chibuzor, Egbunefu Felix and Rose Georgewill, were found culpable, dismissed from the Force and charged with murder. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 