Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin The Edo State Governor and Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate, Godwin Obaseki, and the camp of his All Progressives Congress counterpart, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, have bickered over the rumoured resignation of the PDP chairman in the state, Dr Tony Aziegbemi. The Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, stated on Friday that the rumoured resignation of the PDP chairman was a hoax. Osagie in Benin on Friday described the rumour as “the fabrication of members of the APC in their last minute and desperate efforts to save an unpopular candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, from quitting the governorship race which the party is set to lose.” According to the governor’s spokesman, “With just a week to the September 19 election, and worried by the lack of acceptance of its candidate, the APC has resorted to desperate and unconventional campaign tactics; fake news, deceit and falsehood, to attempt to sway Edo voters.” “For emphasis, the chairman of the PDP in Edo State, Dr. Tony Aziegbemi, has not resigned from the PDP. He is committed to leading the party to victory on September 19, with the party’s candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki. “Edo people should ignore the shenanigans of the APC and come out en masse to reelect the PDP candidate, on Election Day,” he urged. READ ALSO: How 18 Zamfara PDP supporters died in accident on way to welcome gov Meanwhile, the Chairman, Edo State APC Media Campaign Committee, John Mayaki, denied knowledge of the news noting that it had nothing to do with his party. He said, “I am not aware of his resignation. He has no need to resign if you ask me. However, he will go down in history as a party chairman that couldn’t deliver his candidate to victory.” “For our victory to be memorable, we need to beat someone and he’s one of those that will cry the morning after September 19 alongside Godwin Obaseki.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com