Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Commissioner for Health, Dr Oyebanji Filani, has reiterated the state government’s commitment to improved health care indices as part of human capital development in the state. Filani said the commitment was evident in the ongoing renovation of primary health care centres, the state government’s COVID-19 response and other interventions. The commissioner, who spoke in Ado Ekiti during a briefing with development partners, members of Civil Society Organisations and other stakeholders supporting the state health sector, urged partners “to key into the state’s vision and support the different areas that will improve the quality of healthcare service delivery in Ekiti State”. Filani, who restated the Dr Kayode Fayemi administration’s mmitment to working closely with development partners to improve the state’s health sector indices, reiterated the need for partners to continue to work closely with the government. He said, “The strategic partnership with development partners, CSOs and even government institutions at federal level is consistent with the vision of Governor Fayemi to continuously deliver better services and improve the state’s health care system. The commissioner urged members of CSOs to leverage on their proximity to the public by providing additional feedback mechanism between the government and people “to support efforts that will enable greater visibility of the health and social service needs of Ekiti State indigenes”. He disclosed that a forum would be created for regular meetings with the leadership of the state Ministry of Health to allow consistent alignment of priorities as well as discussion of implementation process and challenges. The representative of CSOs, Prof. Christopher Oluwadare, lauded the commissioner’s initiative and pledged that the CSOs, especially those in the health sector, would continue to partner with the state government. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com