John Charles, Makurdi The military operatives have arrested the Benue most wanted criminal, Terwase Akwaza famously known as Gana, alongside some of his arm bearers. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, disclosed this on Tuesday night while addressing journalists after receiving repentant militias from Logo, Katsina Alla and Logo local government areas of the state. Recall that the three local governments, known as Sankera axis in Benue, have been in the grip of militias. Due to the criminal activities in the areas with attendance killings, police authority and the Benue State Government placed N50m on Gana. The Operation Whirl Stroke had consistently bombarded Gana’s hideout in Gbitse in Katsina-Alla local government without success. Ortom said Gana and other repentant militias were on their way to Makurdi to surrender themselves when they were intercepted close to Yandev roundabout in the Gboko LGA. “It was around 4pm when we were waiting for the repentant militias that I received a call that Gana and others have been arrested close to Yandev roundabout in Gboko by soldiers. “Many of the repentant militias had weapons in which they were bringing to surrender to us. “The process of the amnesty programme was known to the security operatives, so I don’t know why they have to be arrested. “Immediately I got the information, I contacted the Commander of Operation Whirl Stroke, General Yekini, who told me that they were carrying out operation and promised to get back to me; so am still waiting for him. “The people willingly surrendered themselves to us, I believe that they will adequately be protected,” Governor Ortom said. The governor explained that 46 out of 172 repentant militias who left Katsina-Alla to Makurdi were later brought to government house, and promised that they will be adequately integrated into the society. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  