Daud Olatunji and Abiodun Nejo An Ogun State Chief Magistrates’ Court sitting in Isabo, Abeokuta, on Tuesday, remanded a 31-year- old man, Taiwo Alimi, in a correctional centre for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl in Abeokuta. The suspect was arraigned on one count of having unlawful carnal knowledge of the victim, which resulted in her getting pregnant. The police prosecutor, Adekunle Opayemi, told the court that the suspect committed the offence in June in the Ijeja area of Abeokuta. He said the offence was contrary to Section 358 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ogun State, 2006. Opayemi added that the incident happened when the victim’s mother sent her on an errand and she met the suspect on the way, who gave him a ride on his motorcycle and promised to take her to where she was going. He stated, “But instead, the suspect took her to his house, where he had carnal knowledge of her, which led to her bleeding from her private parts. “The girl later got home to complain about the heavy blood gushing out from her private parts to her mother, who took her to hospital for medical treatment, where she was confirmed to be six weeks and six days’ pregnant.” Chief Magistrate I. O. Abudu, in her ruling, ordered the suspect to be remanded in a correctional centre pending legal advice from the Directorate of Public Prosecutions. Meanwhile, an Ado Ekiti Chief Magistrates’ Court, on Tuesday, remanded a 23-year-old man, Kolawole Bamidele, in the Correctional Centre in Ado-Ekiti for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl. Chief Magistrate Mr Abdulhamid Lawal adjourned the case till October 20, 2020 for mention. The police prosecutor, Sergeant Olubu Apata, told the court that the defendant allegedly raped the victim at Ilumoba Ekiti in the Gbonyin Local Government Area of the state on September 18, 2020, when he went to the girl’s house on the pretext of sending her on an errand. “The defendant took the victim to an abandoned building and raped her. The girl was rushed to hospital with bloodstain,” he said. According to the police prosecutor, the offence contravenes Section 31 of the Child’s Right Law of Ekiti State, 2012. The court did not take the plea of the defendant. The chief magistrate adjourned the case till November 16, 2020, for mention. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com