Peter Dada, Akure Twenty-eight days before the governorship election in Ondo State, the Peoples Democratic Party has officially flagged off its campaign amid fanfare in Akure, the state capital on Saturday. The venue of the event, the M.K.O Abiola Democracy Park, was filled to the brim with party supporters from the 18 local government areas of the state, who wore different attires carrying party logos. Speaking at the event, the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, declared that the PDP would win the forthcoming governorship election. He said the state belonged to the PDP. Addressing the supporters, Secondus said, “Do not vote for APC, do not allow APC to rig the election. If APC rigs this election, they will face the wrath. The only thing Akeredolu is relying upon is to rig the election because he has not performed. “Make sure you vote out the government that has turned Ondo State to a family business, let Buhari know that the only thing left for him is to conduct free and fair elections in Edo and Ondo States.” Eyitayo Jegede, the candidate of the party, urged the people to vote for the PDP, saying if he won the election, there would be a new face of development in the state. After receiving the flag of the party from the national chairman, Jegede who was also the candidate of the party in the 2016 governorship election, said he would liberate the state if elected the next governor. Jegede pledged, “There would be a new face of Ondo State after I have been sworn in February 2021, there would be a reduction in school fees, there would be a reduction in hospital bills, there would be jobs for the youths, our economy will grow, vote for the PDP on October 10, 2020.” Both state and national leaders of the party were present to witness the event. They included the governors of Oyo and Sokoto States, Engr. Seyi Makinde and Aminu Tambuwal respectively,  former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, former governor of Ekiti State Engr. Segun Oni among other party men and women.