In this interview with ENIOLA AKINKUOTU, the Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme, Mohammed Sambo, speaks about the activities of the NHIS What has been your biggest challenge since you assumed office last year? There are so many challenges. Some have to do with stabilising the organisation because it is an organisation that has faced challenges and it requires a lot of patience, a lot of creativity to bring about the stability. The human resource culture in the NHIS is not a good one. It is an organisation that has been polarised; an organisation where chief executives come and go within a short time. So, there are many challenges of stabilising the human resource and it is not going to be a one-day job. That problem has denied the NHIS of having a stable culture. So, trying to entrench that civil service culture is a huge challenge. Other challenges of human resource are very critical. If you look at the total workforce of the NHIS of the over 1, 400 staff members, only about 40 are health care workers by this I mean doctors, pharmacists, nurses, laboratory medical sciences. You go to so many states and you will not find one of these staff members and all the activities are driven from the headquarters of the NHIS and our state officers in the states are redundant doing nothing. So, this is the main challenge and you know people can resist so many things. About 40 per cent of the total workforce is here in Abuja when the operational centre is the states. So, we don’t have the requisite staff mix. Therefore, I am seeking approval to ensure that we engage these relevant staff and at least place them at state offices so that they can discharge the function. What is happening currently is that if there is a complaint in Yenagoa, it will come to the executive secretary and we have to be taking this long route of resolving it. But if we are able to strengthen our state offices that are terribly weak, then we will have a chance to move fast and purposeful. The state offices are weak and they don’t have clearly defined functions and we have been able to undertake that exercise. I set up a committee and we have defined the functions of the states and we want to deploy a lot of staff from the headquarters. Then of course, we want to see our funds grow. The EFCC is supporting us and it has made a lot of recovery for us. How much did the NHIS lose that the EFCC is recovering? (Laughs) It is not good to be quoting figures because the media will put the figure as the headline. How much has been recovered so far? We can say that the EFCC has recovered about N4.4bn for the NHIS. This is very good for us because we have a lot of things to do and we have recovered a separate N1.7bn for health care facilities from Health Management Organisations. So, if you look at the health care recoveries, it is good but we have more to recover and there is more to be recovered for us by the Office of the Accountant General. Upon your appointment there were some recommendations made by the Presidential panel that investigated the NHIS. Have you been able to implement these recommendations? The independent Presidential panel of inquiry that investigated the organisation recommended the termination of the appointment of the former Executive Secretary and the dissolution of the board and a new ES in the person of my humble self was appointed by Mr President. When I was given my appointment letter, a letter was also sent to the Federal Ministry of Health when the Permanent Secretary was the acting minister. It had about 10 recommendations which were a product of the white paper of the Presidential panel of the inquiry. About 10 recommendations were encapsulated. The first was to ensure that there is a comprehensive human resource audit in resolving issues that have to do with human resources including disciplinary cases. Number two issue is one that has to do with a 10-year strategic plan. Number three had to do with a comprehensive evaluation and assessment of financial management systems. Number four had to do with backlog of unaudited accounts for like 10 years as captured in the paper. The number five issue had to do with developing new structure for the scheme. Then also the issue of capacity for public procurement; the contentious issue of seconded staff to the NHIS; the issue that has to do with the labour unions in the organisation and finally, the issue of clearly defining the responsibility of the executive secretary. So, these were the 10 recommendations that we were asked to undertake and I am happy to say that almost all the recommendations have been completed or has almost been completed. The strategic plan has been done like financial audits and review of financial management systems and I have the report. It was undertaken by the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation. On the issue that has to do with auditing, we have cleared all the backlog of audit which dates back to 2015. When I came, I viewed the situation; it was from 2015 to 2019. So, I am happy to tell you that we have been able to address that. Then the issue that has to do with labour, a representative of the ministry of labour undertook detailed investigations and they have since come up with their report and they have submitted to the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. Then the issue that has to do with capacity building and procurement is ongoing. If not for the COVID-19 interruption, we would have even got far or almost completed it. Then the issue of human resource audit is a long one. The process has to ensure taking relevant data from the staff. There were reports that your predecessor, Prof. Usman Yusuf, left with some NHIS property including vehicles and you had made failed attempts to get them back. Yes, it was actually true that he left with some vehicles and we have attempted to reach him with letter and emissaries but up till now he has not brought them back but what were told to do was to liaise with the DSS so that they could help us recover those vehicles. So, that is ongoing. There have been complaints that the NHIS funds do not belong to the government but enrolees. So, why are the funds being housed in the Treasury Single Account? The funds being in the TSA is not a problem – whether it is for the government or the workers – the most important thing is how the funds are protected from misuse. However, the angle that is contentious and is not palatable to us is that the NHIS fund is supposed to be a growing fund and if it is just in the TSA and is not in treasury bills or any facility that will allow the fund to grow, that is where the problem is. When I came, we reviewed the situation. We felt that the NHIS should be allowed to invest the fund and it can grow and expand the health coverage. We have made a lot of overtures to the Accountant-General’s Office, to the minister’s office. We have been assured that we would be allowed to invest the money but up till now, we have been following up. Some members of the union complained that about N6.2bn was removed from the NHIS fund in the TSA as part of the COVID-19 response. Will this not affect NHIS operations? These are part of the excess fund that we would have invested and that is why we have been going from pillar to post to ensure that investments are done so that the fund of the NHIS is not taken elsewhere. But if you recognise the fact that COVID-19 has come with its own peculiarity and the government has to survive, that deduction has been made and we have made a case and we will continue to follow up when the economy grows, we will certainly continue to look back for that fund. So, we regard that deduction as a loan and we will pursue it as such. The Universal Health Coverage in Nigeria is just about five per cent. What plans do you have to expand this? You see, one of the major issues being raised by the media is the low coverage of the NHIS but the media has forgotten that health insurance business in Nigeria is a decentralised system. That is to say apart from the NHIS, states are also expected to develop their own State Health Insurance Agencies and I am happy to say that almost all the states have now established their health insurance agencies. If we are to actually move towards universal health coverage, the NHIS must have to work with the states because the states have the staff of the states and staff of the local government within their coffers. And the formal sector social insurance which is either public or private is the easiest health insurance that you can do in the sense that these are people that are bound by a workforce and it is easy for you to deduct premium and it will be seamless and the process of collection would be easy and it would remitted to the health insurance for the purpose of the provision of the care. Also, the private sector which is employed and have salaries can easily get their premium paid but the other more challenged segment of the society who are the vulnerable, you need a lot of innovation, you need a lot of creativity and part of this creativity is the Basic Health Care Provision Fund which is to target the vulnerable segment of the population. But I am happy to say that the NHIS has woken up to its stewardship role of overreaching policy development, corporate coordination and we have been able to develop Health Insurance Under One Roof. This initiative has received a lot of accolades in the sense that it is a framework that can bring all the actors within the health insurance ecosystem together. Why doesn’t health insurance cover so many non-communicable diseases like cancer which is expensive to treat? You see, health insurance is not free health. It is contributory and the amount you are able to contribute to the ecosystem or the insurance is the amount you can use to purchase health care services. If you have a situation whereby workers salary is meagre and the contribution to the NHIS is from that meagre salary, we will have meagre funds and therefore meagre services to provide. It is not magic, it is contributory and we have done our own mathematics to know how much is required to cover the entire Nigeria with even the most basic health care provision. It is a colossal amount. You are talking of an amount that will almost amount to one third of the total budget of Nigeria to even cover Nigerians with the basic health care services. So, what we are doing with international organisations is to ensure that we have something called ‘Catastrophic Fund’ domiciled within the NHIS so that we will get many contributors from the private sector, philanthropists and other groups to put their resources into the fund. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com