JOHN ALECHENU, ADELANI ADEPEGBA, PETER DADA and ADEYINKA ADEDIPE Ahead of the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states scheduled to hold on September 19 and October 10 respectively, the Nigeria Police Force has deployed undercover operatives for surveillance and intelligence-gathering in the two states. The force also said that threats to the conduct of the Edo State election had been identified and would be “neutralised in the next few days.” The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, last week said the Election Security Threat Assessment Reports submitted on August 25 by the Commissioners of Police from both states indicated a high likelihood of violence and possible cross-attacks by political opponents. The reports also condemned misinformation and disinformation “aimed at heating-up the polity and deliberate efforts at delegitimising government institutions involved in the electoral processes.” The IG had also raised the alarm over the ongoing arming and movement of thugs by politicians in preparation for the elections, while noting that making use of inciting statements during political campaigns also predisposed the polls to violence. Adamu’s warning came on the heels of a similar alert by the Amnesty International which cautioned against inciting statements emanating from the two states and the risk of having violence and bloodshed during the polls. In Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress, who are contesting in the elections have been engaged in sharp rhetoric, which has increased the political tension in the state, raising fears of violence during the polls. The situation is not different in Ondo State, where Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of the APC is facing stiff opposition from Eyitayo Jegede, the PDP governorship candidate. But providing an update on the security preparations for the polls in an interview with our correspondent on Saturday, the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, said the marine police would be maximally deployed in the riverine areas in the two states to thwart any machination. According to him, three helicopters would conduct aerial surveillance throughout the period of the elections, noting that a chopper would be deployed in each of the three senatorial districts in the states. The police further stated that the security would be watertight, noting that the special forces, including the anti-bomb squad, the Police Mobile Force, Intelligence Response Team and the Special Tactical Squad, would be on duty as part of the customised security arrangement for the elections. Mba said, “Both Ondo and Edo have got waterways, riverine areas. So, we will fully deploy the marine police in the creeks; helicopters for aerial surveillance and quick response to trouble spots as well as sufficient patrol vehicles. Our intention is to have a minimum of three police helicopters in the state; one in each of the three senatorial districts. “We need a very strong aerial surveillance capacity. We need them to be able to respond very quickly in terms of moving quickly from one part of the state to the other. Barring unforeseen weather conditions, the choppers would be maximally put into use in supporting the ground troops.” On the specific security operation for the Edo polls, the police spokesman stated that preemptive strikes and arrests would be carried out in the next few days, noting that identified trouble-makers would be picked up ahead of the September 19 election. Mba, who declined to provide the details of the impending police operations, stated, “We have a customised security strategy for Edo State. We would not unveil it too early because, remember, some of the desperate actors will also be watching and if we release our strategies too early, they could also be coming up with counter-strategies to frustrate what we are putting out.” “All I can tell you is that you would see a lot of preemptive strikes, preemptive arrests; you would see some raids, not just indiscriminate raids, but target-oriented, intelligence-driven raids, purposeful raids. “These would be carried out in the next few days and essentially, we would be carrying out some of these operations to neutralise some of the threats we have already identified. There are pockets of interests we have already identified; we would isolate and neutralise them before the elections,” the police said. Police to deploy 30,000 for Ondo poll Ahead of the October 10, 2020 governorship election in Ondo State, the police said it would deploy no fewer than 30,000 policemen to provide security for the election in the state. The state Commissioner of Police, Bolaji Salami, disclosed while speaking in, Akure, the state capital He said, “Adequate preparation have been concluded to enable the state have a free and fair election. The force headquarters has posted 30,000 policemen to all the 18 local government areas in the state. “The Inspector General of Police has mandated every polling unit to be secured by four highly committed and professional police officers. This is to ensure peace and security for every candidate and voters for credible election in the state.” Arrest APC thugs, says Ondo PDP Following the plan of the police to arrest political thugs, the Ondo State chapter of the PDP has said the police should arrest some people in the camp of the APC who were allegedly threatening violence ahead of the October governorship election. Edo PDP’ll likely say they are being targeted —APC The Edo State APC Media Campaign Council has hailed the police announcement to carry out preemptive strikes against armed thugs that could disrupt the coming Edo governorship election. But the campaign warned against possible antics by the PDP, which he said was likely to allege that the action was against them. Chairman of the APC Media Campaign Council, John Maiyaki, said, “But those antics shouldn’t stop the security agencies from doing the right thing. Everything should be done to make the September 19 election peaceful, free and fair. If that would take preemptive strikes against dealers of violence, then so be it.” Edo: APC, PDP pledge peace after Benin monarch’s intervention Meanwhile, APC National Campaign Council for the Edo State governorship poll and its PDP counterpart have renewed their commitment to ensure a peaceful election after a meeting with the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II. They both commended the foremost Edo monarch for his wise counsel on the need to maintain the peace before, during and after the election scheduled for September 19, 2020. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  