Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Qatar has pegged its national minimum wage at QAR 1,000 (N105,000) per month as part of plans to create a first-class labour system in the Gulf country. The new minimum wage will also apply to employees in all sectors, including domestic workers. The reforms are taking place against the backdrop of Qatar’s ongoing preparations to host the 2022 World Cup as a milestone moment of Qatar National Vision 2030. A statement on Thursday by the Government Communication Office of the State of Qatar said employers were also required to provide QAR 500 per month to their workers for accommodation and another QAR 300 for food every month. The government disclosed that the new plans also include the removal of the ‘No-Objection Certificate’ hitherto required to change jobs and the exit permit requirement. The new minimum wage, according to the statement, will be one of the highest in the developing world, far exceeding the equivalent rates in the origin countries of almost all migrant workers in Qatar. It stated, “The government has set the minimum wage for all private sector workers, including domestic workers at QAR 1,000 per month as a basic wage as well as QAR 500 per month allocated by the employer for accommodation expenses and QAR 300 per month for food, unless the employer already provides adequate food or accommodation for the employee or domestic worker.” The statement described the development as the first of its kind in the Middle East, noting that it would provide extra income to thousands of workers and their overseas dependents at a critically important time for families around the world. “Because of the change, we expect billions of additional pounds to be remitted overseas in local currencies or reinvested in Qatar’s economy each year,” the government stated, noting that it marked the beginning of a new era for Qatar’s labour market. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com