Joseph Olaoluwa Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc has appointed the current Chair of Jumia Nigeria Board, Juliet Anammah, to its Board of Directors. In a regulatory filing by the firm to the Nigerian Stock Exchange, her appointment is effective September 10, 2020. The Chairman of the Board of Flour Mills of Nigeria, John Coumantaros, expressed delight with the appointment. He said, “I am truly excited to welcome Juliet to the Board of Directors. Her over 28 years of executive leadership experience in business consulting and e-commerce in Africa will be of tremendous value to FMN, as we continue to position the group to take advantage of the changing consumer landscape in the foods and agro-allied sectors. “Her appointment represents our determination to ensure that we have a diverse mix of skills and viewpoints on the FMN Board and continue to fulfil our purpose of feeding the nation, every day.” Anammah, who is the current chair of the Board, Jumia Nigeria and Head of Institutional Affairs across Africa brings a vast experience in the consumer product industry, along with excellent skills in product creation and high-profile brand building, the company said. She is a champion of e-commerce in Africa, who while as CEO of Juma Nigeria led the company through a period of impressive growth, and subsequently to become the first African tech company to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 2019. An accomplished business consultant with many years spent in management consulting at Accenture, Nigeria, Anammah also serves on the board of many non-profit organisations involved in women development and trade expansion. She served as Non-Executive Director at Diamond Bank Plc between July 24, 2017, and October 24, 2018. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com