Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Federal Government on Monday announced the appointment of four new permanent secretaries for the federal civil service. The four new permanent secretaries emerged among the nine directors that sat for the final examination for the appointment on September 4, 2020. Director of Information, Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Olawunmi Ogunmosunle, disclosed this in a statement simply titled “Press release.” It read, “The President, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR has approved the appointment of four new permanent secretaries in the federal civil service. READ ALSO: We’ll convert your cars, generators to run on gas, FG promises Nigerians “The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, made this known on Monday, September 14, 2020 in Abuja. “The appointed federal permanent secretaries and their states of origin are as follows: Sule James (Kaduna); Abubakar Ismaila (Kebbi); Roberts Patricia (Rivers); and Shehu Shinkafi (Zamfara). “The swearing-in and deployment will be announced in due course.” A total of 23 directors took part in the first round of the appointment process. The final examination was an interactive session with a broad-based panel of experts and practitioners. Recall that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had approved that re-sit examination be conducted for 23 directors in the federal civil service with a view to appointing four among them as permanent secretaries. The directors are among those who took part in the last exercise that led to the emergence of 12 permanent secretaries on June 16, 2020. The 12 permanent secretaries were appointed out of the 16 approved by the President, therefore leaving four vacancies. They had emerged from the list of 91 directors who participated in the second stage of the qualification examination and the 41 that took part in the final stage. The President had approved re-sit examination for directors who did not make the final list in June but are from Kaduna, Kebbi, Rivers, and Zamfara States.