Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party on Sunday engaged in a war of words over the arrested of seven suspected political thugs in a PDP branded vehicle. The men were arrested in Ifon, Ose Local Government Area. It was gathered the suspects were arrested with locally-made weapons. The Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation, said the incident was a proof of its earlier assertions alerting security agencies about an arms buildup by the ruling party to implicate  opposition parties. In a statement which by Gbenga Akinmoyo, the organisation said, “The APC who boasted of militancy, arms and ammunition through one of their party chieftains and unleashed unprovoked mayhem on the PDP few days ago in a botched assassination attempt on the PDP governorship candidate have moved to the next scene of the unfolding drama. “The information of the arrest of some hoodlums in the PDP branded vehicles at Ifon in Ose LG, whilst our campaign train is due to make a stop in the town, that is presently circulating on social media, is nothing but an attempt by the APC to make good its evil plans.” In response, the spokesman of the Akeredolu/Ayedatiwa Campaign Organisation,  Olabode  Olatunde, said “We are relieved that the police were able to size the sophisticated guns, live cartridges and machetes which could have been used to cut the lives of the innocent people of the state short on the altar of politics. “While we commend the police authority for its gallantry efforts at arresting these hoodlums, we condemn this act in strong terms and call for more investigation into the PDP campaign activities. This is coming despite several appeals for politicians to allow peace reign before, during and after the governorship election, making one to ask if the PDP and thuggery are Siamese twins.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Tee- Leo Ikoro, said “We are investigating this but the hoodlums were arrested with a branded vehicle purportedly using the name of PDP. “Our investigation will prove at the end of the day if they are truly members of PDP or not. Seven of them were arrested with locally-made weapon.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com