Peter Dada, Akure The Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation on Tuesday alleged that the campaign team of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Mr Eyitayo Jegede, was attacked by suspected political thugs at Ipele community in Owo Local Government Area of the state. The PDP campaign team alleged that the attack was a handiwork of youths suspected to be thugs loyal to the ruling All Progressives Congress. In a statement titled, ‘Attack on the PDP team in Ipele Owo,’ the organisation said, “Our campaign team was again attacked by members of the APC in Ipele who had blocked access to the palace of the king and the maternal home of the PDP candidate, in a bid to deny him access to both places earlier scheduled to be visited by Mr Eyitayo Jegede. “Prior to our entry into Ipele, touts and miscreants belonging to the APC had unleashed terror on our members. These miscreants were dispersed by a joint team of police and NSCDC officers. “We would like to warn the APC and its outgoing government to know very clearly that no single individual has the monopoly of violence. While we are very cautious about the broad implication of promoting violence in this election, we however would not be intimated in our pursuit of victory in the polls.” In response, the spokesman of the Akeredolu Campaign Organisation, Mr. Richard Olatunde, said it was rather the PDP that unleashed terror on innocent citizens. Olatunde said “Mr. Eyiyato Jegede ordered his thugs to unleash coordinated attacks on the innocent people of Ipele and Ijebu in theOwo Local Government Area. Our people were traumatised with the sound of sporadic gunshots by Eyiyato Jegede’ thugs in Owo today (Tuesday).” He alleged that billboards belonging to Akeredolu at Emure Junction on the way to Akoko South West Local Government were destroyed. Olatunde further said “No fewer than 20 cars were destroyed and many innocent people of Ipele and Ijebu Owo injured. “We want to place it on record that Eyitayo Jegede is the drumming beat of war. We are preparing for an election that will be determined by the people of this state. The people of Owo are oppressed and victimised by the PDP today.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 