Peter Dada Akure Thousands of supporters of the All Progressives Congress from the 18 local government areas of Ondo State in different party uniforms on Saturday, took the mainbowl of the Akure Township Stadium by storm as the party flagged off its campaign for the state governorship election. Many state and national leaders of the party were also in attendance, some of whom included the National Caretaker Committee Chairman of the party and Governor of Yobe State, Mr Mai Mala Buni,  the governors of Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Ekiti, Kebbi, Nasarawa, Kano, Bornu, Kwara and Plateau States. Members of the National and State Assemblies, ministers were also present at the ceremony. Speaking, the Chairman, National Caretaker Committee of the party, Bunu, said Akeredolu had done well and deserved to continue the work, declaring that the APC candidate was the best choice for the state. He noted that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd) had endorsed Akeredolu as he earlier presented the flag of the party to him (Akeredolu) in Abuja. He said, “Akeredolu has eased out jobs because he had delivered. The people of Ondo should not make the mistake of making the wrong choice. The APC is united, stronger, and will win the election.” Governor Akeredolu, while speaking, charged the people to be watchful of their votes and should not allow the opposition to rig the election. “Don’t vote for the party with one lawmaker in the House of Assembly. We have performed. Go back to your wards and units to vote for us. Don’t let us underrate them, don’t let them rig, stay with your votes,” the governor charged. Some defectors led by  Dr Jimoh Ibrahim were also formally received into the party by the national leaders. Earlier, the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, urged members of the party to work in unity for the sake of victory in the forthcoming election. He also commended the aggrieved members of the party for agreeing to support Akeredolu in the election. He said, “Today, we have a united All Progressives Congress in Ondo. United toward achieving victory in the governorship election. United in the developmental work that must be done after the election. I would be remiss if I fail to thank Baba Ali Olanusi and other members of the now-defunct Unity Forum for their commitment to the party and for so firmly believing in what we stand for.”