Wale Oyewale The Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo State on Saturday described the statement by a group within the All Progressives Congress in the state, called the APC Professionals, as a clear manifestation of failure and a disappointment to the people of the state who, hitherto reposed their trust in the party. The PDP spoke in reaction to a comment credited to the APC-P alleging that Governor Seyi Makinde expended about N7bn purportedly belonging to the state on his agenda to be fielded as vice president by the party in the 2023 poll. The PDP, in a statement signed by its state Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji, on Saturday, described the group as “an association of clowns with no basic knowledge of issues into which they dabble.” The statement read in part, “Oyo State PDP wondered if the group was a splinter group from the APC. Such act is a clear manifestation of failure and a disappointment to the people of Oyo State who rejected the party in totality. “The handlers of the party need to be specially trained in the art of performing its duties outside of government. The Oyo State chapter of APC has further shown the world that its failure is not limited to when it was in government but also when playing the opposition party in the state. “We understand the concept of democracy and the role of opposition but our deepest disappointment is borne out of the fact that Oyo APC has reduced itself to mere association of clowns with the way and manner it is daily conducting itself. “Governor Makinde is an exceptional achiever. Makinde’s one year has recorded more success in terms of improved quality of life than APC’s entire eight years put together.” The ruling party said it expected vibrancy from the APC so that the government would continue to do better in its commitment to the state. “Instead, the opposition party is daily giving us comedy and absolutely unserious disposition to its role outside government,” it added. Also, Taiwo Adisa, the Chief Press Secretary to  the governor, said on Saturday that the governor was not using the state’s revenue to finance activities of the PDP. The media aide, who spoke on Political Circuit, a programme of the Ibadan-based Fresh 105.9 FM, said the Makinde administration’s innovative project funding approach brought about massive turnaround in the infrastructure deficit of the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com