Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Tolu Odebiyi, on Monday urged the Dangote Cement Plc, to consider the adoption of two legacy schools in its N4bn Corporate Social Responsibility in Ogun State Odebiyi stated this in an interview with our correspondent following the announcement by Dangote cement that it had spent N4.1bn to execute projects in 14 host communities in Yewa land. Dangote listed the various projects to include 40 classrooms, three health centres, 22 boreholes and five transformers estimated at N278m The Plant Director of the firm, Mr. Azad Nawabuddin, who disclosed this last week, said the company was willing to spend much more on education and training of youths in the area. Odebiyi appreciated the efforts of the firm but urged the management to adopt two legacy schools that are very dear to the Yewa people apart from what it is doing for the host communities. He said Dangote should adopt Yewa College (formerly Egbado College) and the Comprehensive High School, Aiyetoro. He said, “While we appreciate the giant strides of Dangote Cement in the host communities, we would want the company to adopt the two schools in order to bring a lasting legacy to Yewa land. “The schools are very dear to the Yewa people and their adoption by Dangote would enable many indigent students have access to affordable quality education .” Odebiyi who is from Iboro town, one of the host communities, also urged Dangote to create an endowment fund for indigent students to seek admission in tertiary institutions. The senator also challenged the firm to maintain global best practices in its operations by minimising pollution in order to safeguard the health of the people. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  