Dayo Ojerinde The Chief Executive Officer, Occupational Health and Safety Managers, Mr Ehi Iden, has stressed the need for patients and health workers’ safety to be prioritised. Iden said this at an event organised to commemorate the World Patients Safety Day celebrated annually on September 17. He said, “Owing to the COVID-19 impact on the health and safety of the health care workers as was evident globally, it became obvious the need to integrate these two issues into one for global discussions. The World Health Organisation in her wisdom has chosen a very apt theme for this year’s event, ‘Healthcare Workers Safety: A Priority for Patient Safety’, this could not have come at a better time. “As we join the rest of the world to mark the World Patient Safety Day 2020 as adopted at the 72nd World Health Assembly Resolution in May 2019, it is important to strengthen the fact that both the safety of the health care workers and that of the patients should be protected. “As much as we advocate the safety of patients, we also need to remember that health care facilities are also workplaces primarily before being a place where patients receive care. The need to also protect the health and safety of the health care workers should be a very important aspect in the conversations that surround patient safety.” The occupational health advocate added that the hope of patients’ safety and good treatment outcomes could be jeopardised if health workers’ safety could not be guaranteed. “Good treatment outcomes and the safety of the patients is a combination of many variables; it is difficult to give credit to specific sets of professions within the system. Outcomes are always joint efforts of all employees within the facility and this is one of the reasons why we argue that safety must start from the boardroom to the bedside, to the gatehouse and beyond. “We appeal to all employers of labour within the health care sector, the government and regulatory agencies to look closely into the issues of health care workers’ safety and protection. The health care work environment is highly infectious and what is needed most times is only mitigation which comes in form of safe process designs, improved hygiene practices, use of personal protective equipment and vaccination of health care workers against infectious diseases with existing vaccines,” Iden said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com