Tunde Ajaja The Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman of Nigeria Governor’s Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, Governor of Ogun State, Mr Dapo Abiodun and a former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, have thrown their weight behind a compendium to commemorate the 60th anniversary of Nigeria on October 1. The book, titled ‘Nigeria @60: Foremost Nigerians of the last 60 years’, was written by a former Society Editor of ThisDay, Mr Lanre Alfred. The author said in a statement on Saturday that the book would be in stores across the country and beyond in the first week of October. In his Prologue, titled ‘Enriching the History of a Giant’, Saraki described the author’s decision to tell the Nigerian story through the account of the contributions and achievements of selected citizens as interesting. He added, “This book by Lanre Alfred, a journalist with many years experience, is definitely going to add fresh pages to the body of literature and biographical work on this great country.” In the Foreword, Fayemi, who said he was satisfied with the author’s optimistic approach to the appreciation of Nigeria, added, “This approach is not only a commendable reward system; it is also an effective story-telling strategy that properly situates the nation’s milestones around the exploits of her heroes and heroines. The author also said Abiodun lauded the ingenuity of the book and that he would gladly recommend the book for reading across a broad spectrum of the society.” Abiodun added, “This book is a storehouse of information about the people that made and are making Nigeria great. History well told is beautiful. Many of the historians who appeal to the general reading public know the importance of dramatic and skilful writing as well as of accuracy and this is where Alfred has excelled with this book.” The author said he would dedicate the book to the Chairman of Globacom, Dr Mike Adenuga, as homage to his humanity and relentless strides. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  