’Femi Asu The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, in partnership with the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs and the International Labour Organisation, has commenced a nationwide campaign to comprehend the aspirations of young Nigerians on decent work. It said the campaign would help develop a roadmap towards designing effective policy and programmes that would ensure that young Nigerians are adequately prepared to get and create jobs. According to a statement titled ‘Nigeria takes steps to implement the Nigeria Youth Employment Action Plan’, the campaign is being managed by the Nigeria Youth SDGs Network, a coalition of youth-led civil society organisations. It described the campaign as part of the implementation of the Nigerian Youth Employment Action Plan, a four-year detailed plan to address the youth employment challenge in Nigeria in a comprehensive and coordinated manner. The statement said the NIYEAP had been developed to complement and operate in the context of existing policies, frameworks, and strategies such as the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, the National Youth Policy, the National Employment Policy, the United Nations Development Partnership Framework and the Call for Action. It said, “The ministry, however, commenced activities for the review of the NIYEAP four-year-plan in the year 2018, in collaboration with the United Nations, which also launched the Global Initiative on Decent Jobs for Youths, a multi-stakeholder partnership to advance the implementation of youth employment-related targets of the 2030 Agenda in the year 2016. “The Nigerian Youth Employment Action Plan serves as a commitment of the government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under the Global Initiative on Decent Jobs for Youths.” According to the statement, with a focus on employment creation, employability, equality and rights as well as entrepreneurship, the priority themes of NIYEAP are further delineated into strategic lines of action listed under each theme. It said emphasis would be placed on sectors with high job creation potential, such as digital economy, rural economy, green economy and renewable energy sector, manufacturing, tourism and construction. The statement said, “The action plan is a fundamental framework to address youth employment and it emphasises finding solutions with and for young people who are seeking decent and productive jobs. “The nationwide campaign commenced on July 21, 2020, with a survey that can be accessed through virtual platforms. “Through the survey, the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, and the International Labour Organisation are gathering the views of the Nigerian youth on employment prospects and needs of youth that will inform policy direction and ensure the right approaches are pursued to implement the NIYEAP.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  