Friday Olokor, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission on Tuesday exonerated its Resident Electoral Commissioners and other officials from all accusations by politicians. The commission also promised free, fair and credible elections in the elections in Edo and Ondo states scheduled for September 19 and October 10 respectively. The Chairman of INEC, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, spoke shortly after administering oath of office on a Resident Electoral Commissioner representing Osun State, Dr Tella Adeniran Rahman at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja. Recall that the Akwa Ibom REC, Mike Igidi, had been accused of being a supporter of a particular political party in the Edo State. But Yakubu exonerated INEC RECs, saying people, for the purpose of diverting attention, slammed slanderous accusations on officials of the commission. Yakubu said, “Let me say this that we stand by our Resident Electoral Commissioners. You know the kind of job we are doing; all manners of people come with all manners of accusations to slander officials of the commission to divert our attention from the onerous task of conducting elections in Nigeria. “We won’t be distracted. We know all these shenanigans, people have been doing this to distract us from doing what is right. My assurance to the people of Edo and Ondo states, and the people of the 14 constituencies where we are going to conduct bye-elections on October 31 is that they should expect from INEC free, fair,  credible elections, professional conduct.” He also spoke on the spate of violence in Edo state. The INEC chairman said, “We are concerned but we are leaving no stone unturned in speaking to the political actors to the respected voices like the Oba of Benin as well as the security agencies to ensure a hitch-free election.” The INEC chairman charged the newly-appointed REC from Osun State, who was sent to Ekiti State, to be prudent with the management of personnel and resources under his authority. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 