Armstrong Bakam The Bauchi State Police Command has arrested a 50-year-old man, Bawada Audu, for allegedly burying his grandson alive. The command in a statement by the state police spokesman, DSP Ahmed Wakil, said the man carried out the act after his 17-year-old daughter was delivered of the baby. Wakil explained that the minor was allegedly raped in January this year. He said after a joint operation by the police and an unnamed human rights group, the baby was exhumed but was confirmed dead at a hospital. Wakil said, “On September 16, 2020, around 10am, a human rights group brought one 17 year-old (name withheld)  of Rimin Zayam, in the Toro Local Government Area of Bauchi State, to the Toro Police Division, who allegedly gave birth to a male child on September 14. “Her father, Bawada Audu, was said to have seized and buried the child behind his house. “The baby was exhumed and rushed to a general hospital where he was certified dead by a doctor.” The police spokesman said the victim told the police that one Danjuma Uba, who is now at large, had raped her “sometime in January 2020.” He said the corpse, of the newborn was released to the village head of Rimin Ziyam for burial. He added that the suspect had confessed to the crime. The state police spokesman also said one Musa Bala of Karofin Madaki in Bauchi metropolis reported to the police that his two daughters were gang-raped by four men at Sabon Kaura village. He said the suspects — Nazif Mohammed, Ukacha Abubakar, Sharif Abubakar, and Ibrahim Umar — had been arrested. Wakil further said a 17-year-old was also arrested for defiling two children, aged seven and five, in the Nassarawa Jahun area of the state. He added that one Munkaila Ladan was accused of raping an eight-year-old daughter of his neighbour. “The suspect was arrested and he confessed to the crime,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 