Friday Olokor, Abuja Barely 24 hours after the resignation of Wale Babalakin (SAN) as Pro-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, another member of the Governing Council of the institution, Prof. Bayo Adaralegbe, has tendered his resignation. The resignation letter of Adaralegbe dated September 18, 2020 to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, entitled: ‘Resignation from the Governing Council of UNILAG’ was obtained by Saturday PUNCH in Abuja on Friday. The letter reads, “I wish to inform you of my resignation from the Governing Council of the University of Lagos with immediate effect. I was inaugurated along with other Federal Government appointees on April 6 2017. In that period, Dr. Babalakin provided very strong moral leadership as Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council. “He kept scrupulously to the promise he made at our maiden council meeting not to bid for, or be awarded contracts from the university. He actually did more. By December 2019 he had poured approximately N100m of his own personal resources on different endeavours in the university. At the time this situation arose, he was in the process of transferring to the university (at no cost to it) 40 hectares of land he owned in Ogudu, Lagos to address its staff housing problems. “I consider my continued stay on the Governing Council of University of Lagos, a serious dishonor and desecration of my late father’s memory, Professor Adeniji Adaralegbe one (if not the very first) of the first set First Class holders of UNN, former Deputy Vice Chancellor, University of Ife and Special Adviser to Professor Aliu Babatunde Fafunwa, Honourable Minister Federal Ministry of Education. I want to thank you and Mr President very sincerely for the opportunity to have been of useful service to my father land.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com