Tessy Igomu Relocating Borno’s Internally Displaced Persons to structures constructed with corrugated iron sheets could expose them to meningitis, heat stroke and respiratory distress, experts have warned. They said living in structures built with zinc and draped with tarpaulin could expose occupants to dangerous weather conditions capable of triggering debilitating health conditions. The warning comes on the heels of Borno State Government’s decision to construct 1,000 houses for internally displaced persons in Damasak, head town of Mobbar Local Government Area. Damasak has experienced disruptive years of banditry and Boko Haram insurgency, leading to the displacement of hundreds of residents. According to the Federal Commissioner of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and IDPs, Basheer Mohammed, the structures comprise of 1,000 housing units. Mohammed, who represented Kano Central from 2011 to 2015 at the National Assembly, stated via his Twitter handle @BasheerGarbaMoh that he had been working tirelessly to ensure that the refugees are resettled. The ‘Resettlement City Rehabilitation and Reintegration Project’ are to be sited in four states, Mohammed added. He tweeted the photographs, explaining that he and Governor Babagana Zulum made a stopover at the project site on their return to Maiduguri earlier in the week. According to a Daily Trust report earlier in the year, Borno State Commissioner of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement, Mustapha Gubio, said apart from roads, drainages, and high voltage transformers, the estate has provision for school, hospital, boreholes, fire service station, mini market, offices for Civilian JTF, vigilante and hunters, plus offices for housing and water management officials. The newspaper reported that Gubio, during the foundation laying ceremony of the 1,000 Housing Estate, said it was “targeted at relocating the over 89,000 IDPs presently occupying schools and other government premises in Monguno.” “He revealed that the housing facility, expected to cost the government over N5bn, will be completed within six-month period, while the school project will cost about N75m and is expected to be completed within a period of three months,” the medium had reported on February 6. In interviews with PUNCH HealthWise, a Structural Engineer, Samson Okoli, said those expected to occupy the structures risk being exposed to extreme weather conditions that could impact their health negatively. According to WorldData.info, Borno is one of the warmest regions in Nigeria, with an average daily high temperature of 34 degrees centigrade. The research and data platform noted that with a yearly average of 34 degrees, it is year-long warm or hot. Okoli said before constructing mass housing units, safety and health factors must be put into consideration. To continue reading this story and more. click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com