When and where were you born? I was born to the family of Obanla in Okemesi in Ekiti West Local Government Area of Ekiti State. My mother, Celiat, was from Iloro Ekiti in the Ijero council area of Ekiti State. I am 85 years old. Who were your parents? My father, known as Ifakoyin, was an Ifa priest and an expert in maternity matters in the traditional sense. He was a fervent Muslim, hence he was Aliu. Did your parents have formal education? No. My parents didn’t go to school at all, but they enrolled me in school. An incident happened after spending about six months in the school; I started vomiting blood. They sent for my dad; he came and consulted the Ifa oracle. He disclosed that I would die early if I should have education. My mother had six children, but only two of us survived, so my father didn’t want me to go the way of my other four siblings. They pleaded with my dad to leave me in school and that they would pray to avert it. Also around that time, my hair was shaved and maggots were coming out of my skin. They had to send for my dad again; that time, he said the only way out for me was to forget about having education. That was how I was withdrawn from school. However, when I joined the Nigerian Army, I had the opportunity to study and express myself in English. Then my trips to the UK, Germany, US, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Ghana, Benin Republic, Liberia, etc. gave me further exposure. I have been to Saudi Arabia nine times and even celebrated my birthday there twice. I have celebrated birthdays in London, UK; Lagos, Ekiti and Ibadan, Oyo State. I strive to make significant impacts in life. I never thought that I could go to Mecca in my lifetime. What do you gain from celebrating your birthdays in different places? Basically, it is about where I am when it is my birthday. But I wanted to celebrate my birthdays in Saudi Arabia because of the importance of the place to Islam. My last birthday was celebrated in Ibadan. I use my birthdays as opportunities to evaluate my standing with men, to see how people still regard me, to know if through attitude, utterances and conduct, I still maintain my dignity, popularity, goodwill, and so on or if I have lost them. For instance, when I celebrated it in Ekiti, people were saying it was sponsored by the government because of the glamour and the kind of prominent persons that came. The same thing happened when I celebrated it in Lagos. So I said I would try in Oyo State because I lived in Ibadan for a fairly long time. My paternal grandmother was from Ile Oluokun family in Ibadan. It was while she was selling beads that she got to Okemesi where she married my grandfather. Members of the Oluokun family were at the birthday party. How close were you to your dad? I was very close to my dad because he was a disciplinarian and a helper. I know a lot of people that he brought smiles to their faces. He assisted people who wanted to have children to be fruitful and changed the stories of those who had seen their situations as hopeless. It was my dad that I followed to Lagos. How was life in Lagos when you were taken there? I had no education so I became a conductor. I hawked water and did other menial jobs to eke out a living. Looking back, I fear God. I never knew I could get to where I am today. Today, I dine with presidents, governors, mighty men, and other prominent people in this world. I travel around the world and across the country, it remains a mystery that a nobody could become somebody. That is why I marvel at God. What attracted you to theatre? The attraction came when my mother told me a story. For about 17 years that my mother spent with her former husband, my mother could not bear a child. The husband later died and the husband’s family asked her to marry her brother-in-law but my mother refused. She said she would rather return to her family. Somehow, my father went from Okemesi to Iloro to carry out an Ifa engagement. They told my mother about how my father had helped many women have children and that  she should also try him. But on meeting my father, he consulted Ifa oracle and told her that Ifa said the children she had been looking for followed her to the place and that he (my dad) would be the one to marry her. She was furious on hearing that the old man wanted to marry her and left in anger. Later, my mother’s younger brother asked about the outcome of her consultation with the Ifa priest, and she replied that the man was looking for a wife. It was her brother who encouraged her to give the priest a chance. So when my mum summoned up courage to go back, she heard the voice of an unseen person asking repeatedly, ‘Will you buy a drum for me?’ She said that on getting to the priest the second time, the man repeated that Ifa said her children had followed her to the place. She did not argue with him that time. That was how they got married and had six children. But only two of us, my younger sister, who is now a Christian, and I survived. I saw the story as something to work on for theatre. Which of your plays do you like most? That is difficult to say. The one that promoted me most is ‘Arelu’. But the one that South-West governors sat down, recognised and encouraged, which I did in partnership with the Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State along with Yemi Farounbi and Bisi Adesola, was ‘Agba Arin’. It was sponsored by the Oyo State Government. ‘Agba Arin’ promoted us and that was what led to the production of ‘Arelu’ and ‘Yanpan Yanrin’. One of the reasons why I celebrated my last birthday in Ibadan was because those great plays that promoted me had the input from Oyo State Government. Where do you get inspiration? I bring out stories, words and names from Ifa oracle. When you look at Ifa (Odu), everything there is a story. Ifa has 16 corpuses, each corpus has 16 chapters and each chapter has 16 verses. They are all stories. You cannot exhaust these stories if you choose to explore them. This was what preoccupied my mind when I was learning Ifa from my dad. Fadeyi, Fatunde, Aworo, etc.; all these are from Ifa. I bring out stories, words, names, and so on from Ifa. Also, if I witnessed a scene, for instance, a quarrel which some elders were later able to settle, from the background, resolution, proverbs, expressions there, I would bring out a story. These are how I get my stories. Some people believe you have supernatural powers… If somebody says he has powers without the backing of God, know that it is vain. If one has power and he is proud, arrogant and wicked, there is no way the day of reckoning will not come. There is the law of retribution or the law of cause and effect. Evil will naturally come the way of anyone that is evil. I strongly believe in that and this has shaped my life and it is for this reason some of us do not misspend our lifetime. (Sings: ‘I will rather do good and not evil and if good is repaid with evil, let it be. I will rather do good. I will rather do good’). Besides, my father told me what I should do. He said I should respect elders and traditional rulers. He said I should not disregard the younger ones. He warned me about women; he said I should give women their due regard. I adhere to my father’s advice. Consider the factors responsible for the downfall of many people today; if you see a power-drunk king, before you know it, he will meet his Waterloo. When clerics are proud, they are disgraced. If a rich man becomes arrogant, he will meet his nemesis. God has said if we follow the teachings of the Bible and Quran, we will be humble. You spoke earlier about how your job has brought you in contact with many eminent personalities, how satisfying is that? As a matter of fact, I have lived in virtually all parts of the country and I have learnt the ways of the people. I’ve learnt about different cultures, traditions and religions. I have been close to many politicians since the days of Chief Ladoke Akintola, Chief Remi Fani-Kayode, Akinyemi Obe, Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Alhaji Dauda Adegbenro till now with the new generation politicians. I have received many chieftaincy titles and awards. I was installed as the Oba Asa of Yorubaland about two and half years ago. I have received over 200 awards home and abroad. I have received awards in the UK, US, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Ghana, and all over in Nigeria. All these are in recognition of my contributions to society as a theatre practitioner. Why did you leave the theatre to join the military at a point? I used to play with Sunny Lion Heart. One day, when Sunny Lion Heart was playing, soldiers came there and beat him up. He felt bad and said he would handle the situation by joining the military. In my case, while I was travelling to perform, some soldiers said I should come to join them so that I would be acting for them. That was how I joined the military in Abeokuta (in Ogun State). From Abeokuta, I moved to Zaria (in Kaduna State). We were travelling with the military to perform plays. We went to places like Gboko, Otukpo, Makurdi (all in Benue State), Zaria, and Port Harcourt (in Rivers State). I was with the First Division, Second Division and Third Marine Commando. It was while Illiya Bisalla, Benjamin Adekunle, Olusegun Obasanjo and James Oluleye were in the military. Why did you later leave the military? When I felt it was time to return home, I told James Oluleye then at Second Division that I wanted to go home and he signed my papers. I was at Ikare Ekiti. That was how I returned to my job, Jimoh Aliu Cultural Troupe. I bought instruments, costumes, vehicles, etc. When I hit the towns, it was as if the people were already waiting for me. They had missed me during the time I was in the military. Why were you honoured with the title of professor at the University of Jos, Plateau State? The University of Jos honoured me with the Professor of Theatre Arts through Chief Afe Babalola because of what I have done in the industry and the practitioners I have trained, even in Ekiti State University here. How will you assess the entertainment industry in Nigeria today? In view of the scripts I wrote many years ago and my productions, I still get recognition wherever I go. People appreciate my contributions to the industry. Through Mr Yemi Farounbi, we tried a lot to promote the theatre industry in Nigeria. I hail the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi; he is doing a lot to promote the Yoruba custom and tradition. Most practitioners today, through their scripts, have deviated. I may not really be impressed with how it is today. The craze for wealth which is stronger than the will of practitioners to write good scripts. Many people are after money rather than reputation. There are many of their works that they cannot recommend for their children. My advice is that they should desist from writing and performing plays that will have negative impacts on our children. They should let the younger ones or viewers know that there are heavy sanctions for vices. Theatre practitioners should also, through the art, correct the government. They should teach people lessons with a view to putting society on the right path. These are supposed to be the focus of their scripts. The culture of nudity and crime should be done away with. They should focus on what can bring us closer to God – what is acceptable to all and what can edify our society and culture. We should be alive to our responsibility of correcting the ills of society. How did you meet your first wife? My first wife is dead. I met and married her in the course of doing this job, when I was with my boss, Akin Ogungbe. At what point did you become a polygamist? In the process, I realised I could not do it alone. I could not sing and dance alone. Then, my boss, Ogungbe, advised that if I married three of four wives, it would be easy for me. It was a valid piece of advice and I heeded it and it helped greatly. Why is it that all your wives are fair-complexioned? Some of them tried to impress me by working on their complexion, but others are naturally fair-complexioned. How many wives do you have? I have only two wives now. Are any of your children following in your footsteps? All my children can sing and dance. There is one who started making hip-hop music in London after graduating over there. Others are in different places – Germany, Canada, US, etc. They are into different professions. However, all of them can dance and act because they were born into the art. What is your favorite food? At this age, I don’t eat like I used to eat when I was young. The food I like now is beans. I don’t like pounded yam and eba again. Iyan (pounded yam) was my favourite when I was young. Though there is no food I don’t eat, now, I don’t like to eat any food that is heavy. I take fruits – cucumber, water melon, etc. and I jog. Exercise is part of my daily routine. In rehearsal, I am the one who teaches my group members different dancing styles. How do you feel at 85 years? I am happy. I was able to get here by the grace of God. It was not by my making. I don’t drink, I don’t smoke, and I stay indoors whenever I’m in town. But my hobby, even at this age, is travelling. I travel a lot. I don’t hesitate to take trips to any part of the country or abroad. I find fulfillment and pleasure in travelling. I just returned from one of my numerous trips that took me to Kano, Abuja, Abeokuta and Lagos two days ago. What are your regrets in life? Life is full of ups and downs, highs and lows. From birth till death, human beings witness days when life will be sweet and days of evil. Sorrow is part of life. I have had regrets. I have had to mourn members of my immediate family. What will you attribute your longevity to? I cannot say, but my father spent over 130 years before he died. However, he gave me certain warnings. I can see what kills many people these days – excessive consumption of alcohol, smoking, taking illicit drugs, womanising, and lack of moderation in life. You should beware of people you are friends with. Inordinate ambitions and impatience make some people seek positions, wealth, fame through dubious means. I have never struggled to attain any position. I have seen disappointments but I take life with equanimity. I have had to contend with betrayers and people who are envious, but I accept whatever comes my way with calmness. What advice do you have for the youth? I want them to redirect their energies towards education. They should take their attention away from phones and fraud. With Internet  fraud, they have destroyed the lives of many people at home and abroad. They should please stop it and face their education. They should get close to God and believe God provides everything. They should stop copying those negative things and behaviour alien to us, such as ‘sagging’ of trousers and taking illicit drugs. Many dreams have been cut short or destroyed. They should not destroy their destinies. Parents should teach their children and monitor them. There are some parents who are drunks, night crawlers, fraudulent people, etc. They are a bad influence on their children. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com