Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Chief Medical Director, Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido Ekiti, Prof Adekunle Ajayi, has called on philanthropists and groups to lend support to hospitals in form of cash, equipment and facilities donations to improve their services to humanity. Ajayi, who said that FETHI had incorporated an indigent fund with which it intended to fund the health care needs of the poor patients who daily throng the facility to access medical care, said, “We are trying to make well-endowed people in community come to help us in this regard. The CMD said, “A lot of us donate money to churches, political parties, associations, organisations, but we forget to come to the hospital and help build the system. “When I did an analysis of how much we had to waive for patients last year, it was in the range of N50m – patients who came for treatment and could not afford the bill, despite the fact that our charges are not high, a lot cannot still afford it”. He spoke at Ido Ekiti during the discharge ceremony for two-month-old baby Emmanuella who was delivered in 24 weeks gestation weighing 600 grammes and was referred to the hospital for management following complications. The CMD, who said the management of the baby’s case, a condition which he said was rare and expensive, said such a fund would come handy for indigent patients and their parents. Ajayi said, “We need support from people. FETHI is in Ido Ekiti truly, but from the case of Emmanuella, the baby was referred from Kogi State. Those who will enjoy the quality services that we render here go beyond Ekiti. “We have just incorporated an indigent patients’ fund for instance with which we intend to fund the health care needs of the poorest of the poor who come to this hospital regularly. We will depend on society to put money in this fund so that we can help these people. “Nobody is asking us how much we have spent on Emmanuella, it is a lot of money. Let people come around and donate for the care of others. “Sometimes, people are too quick to come forward to criticize and castigate hospitals when they commit errors, but they hardly ask questions about what they can do to improve the system at such a time. This is an area I think we need to look at. “People should take a cue from Pastor Folu Adeboye, the wife of Redeemed Christian Church of God General Overseer, who recently donated money to the hospital so that we can use it to care for people. Let me assure her and the general public that that we have put the money to good use. We encourage others to toe that line.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com