Adelani Adepegba, Abuja A businesswoman, Mrs Uju Ohanenye, has petitioned the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, on the alleged involvement of the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone 13, Dammalam Mohammed, in a land tussle between her and some persons in Enugu State. Ohanenye, a lawyer, said Mohammed had frustrated the execution of an Enugu High Court order dated February 6, 2018, evicting the illegal occupants from the disputed two hectares of land located in the Emene Industrial Area of Enugu. The petition dated September 15, 2020, was titled, ‘Threat to my life and property by AIG Dammalam Mohammed and others: Please save me’. The businesswoman alleged that the AIG encouraged the defendants to disobey the court order, noting that he also humiliated her in his office and ordered his men to arraign her before an Enugu Magistrates’ Court for protesting his involvement in the land matter. The case was, however, struck out due to lack of evidence. Following Mohammed’s alleged collusion with the defendants, Ohanenye, who is the Managing Director of KENUj Investments Limited, narrated that the former occupants had moved back to the land from where they were earlier evicted on the orders of the court. She stated that Mohammed became entangled in the civil matter when he was the Enugu State Commissioner of Police, noting that despite his elevation as AIG, he had continued to provide official support to those occupying the land illegally. The petition read in part, “It is very unfortunate that the then Commissioner of Police in Enugu, Dammalami Mohammed, got himself involved in the land matter and took sides with the occupants of that property, who were ejected by the court. “He arrested me and my people and warned me never to step a foot on the land or he would deal with me. Those evicted by the court have moved back and rebuilt the demolished fence and they are still occupying the land to date in violation of the court judgment.” Ohanenye added that on May 4, 2020, she petitioned the IG on a case of conspiracy, trespass and conduct likely to cause a breach of peace and disobedience to a lawful court order, noting that the force headquarters directed the Zone 9 headquarters, Umuahia, to investigate her petition, which led to the ongoing prosecution of those occupying the land. Since then, the petitioner said she had been receiving threatening calls from unknown persons, adding that she was concerned about reports that Mohammed had requested for the case file, adding, “I’m so afraid for my life right now, knowing that he is an interested party, who has sworn to deal with me.” But the AIG refuted the allegations, saying he did not encourage anyone to disobey the court order. “I’m not aware; more so, land matter is purely civil in nature and I can’t encourage anybody to disobey court orders,” Mohammed stated in a text message on Saturday.      ,, Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com