Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Waziri Tambuwa of Sokoto State, Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, and other governors from the South-South and South-East states on Tuesday graced the final campaign of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shaibu, at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City. The governors, in their separate speeches, charged the electorate to vote and protect their votes. Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, said Governor Obaseki had done his best in going round the 192 wards to solicit for their votes and that the large number of persons that have turned out at the rally was a clear attestation that he has done what he needed to do. For Tambuwa, the people of the state must rise up to protect their votes and should not be intimidated or allowed themselves to be enticed by money so as to sell their votes. “I hear that somebody is coming here with a bullion van. Do not sell your vote. Do not be intimidated, vote and let it be counted. Vote for continuity,” he said. Also speaking, Okowa commended the state governor for taking his campaigns round the 192 wards. A former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, said voting Obaseki the second time would guarantee a brighter future. The national chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Uche Secondus, said the European Union and other lover of democracy all over the world must rise to see that the Edo State governorship election was free, fair and credible. He said the ban recently placed on some political leaders in the country was a welcome development noting that such should be extended to politicians who tend to carry out such act in the forthcoming governorship election in the state. On his part, Obaseki, thanked all the governors who graced the rally. He said his joining the PDP had made him to know the importance of brotherhood, stressing that the PDP governors have shown him love and concern in this recent times. The governor boasted that he has “successfully conquered the local godfather and now, the fight will be how to conquer it nationally.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com