Apart from the pains and anguish they endure, cancer patients in Nigeria, generally, also experience trauma related to travelling long distances to receive specialist cancer treatment. People living with cancer in the south-south part of the country — such as Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross-River and Delta states — seem to be the worst hit. When Mrs. Victoria Glory Ugorji went for her medical check-up at the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, a foremost tertiary health facility in Rivers State, she thought she would be booked immediately for her radiotherapy treatment. Little did she know that she had to travel miles to access such treatment. The 34-year-old mother-of-one was devastated when she was told that the nearest state to get the radiotherapy treatment was either Lagos or Imo. What made it worse for her was that she was wheel chair-bound and needed to charter a car for her journey. “The experience is what I don’t wish for anyone. I was in pain; it was during the lockdown. I had spinal cord problem because I was diagnosed of lung cancer. “Doctor told me that the cancer had spread to my bone and that the best option was to go for radiotherapy. “I had expected to be referred to the University of Port-Harcourt Teaching Hospital, but instead, I was told that the nearest place was Lagos or Imo. Looking at my condition, I was in serious pain and on wheelchair and if I must go anywhere, I must go in a private vehicle,” Ugorji said. She later opted for the American Cancer Hospital, Ikeduru, in Imo state. That’s 53 miles away, and over two hours by road, according to Google Map. The trip cost her N20,000 for transport fare from Port-Harcourt to Imo state; while the medical bill was N600,000. “I almost died. At a point, we waited for one hour because of the traffic jam. I got to Imo State around 9 pm.” According to her, there were other patients from Rivers State who also came for the same treatment at the cancer centre. “We were about six people from Rivers State who came for the treatment and I was wondering why we couldn’t have at least a radiotherapy machine in the entire Rivers State,” she lamented. “The treatment is N400,000. The consultation fee is N30,000 and the test was over N70,000. Accommodation was about N24,000. So, everything is roughly about N600,000,” Ugorji explained. Another cancer patient, Mrs. Ifeoma Nwogu, who was diagnosed of breast cancer in 2018, travelled from Port-Harcourt to Lagos State twice for her treatment. Port Harcourt to Lagos takes 10 hours 12 minutes, being 274 miles by road, according Google Map. Nwogu made the first journey to book an appointment for the radiotherapy, while she later returned for the treatment. “I did my biopsy and chemotherapy at UPTH and the doctor suggested that I travel to Lagos for my radiotherapy. “I came for my radiotherapy at the cancer centre in Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, in October 2019, because we don’t have any radiotherapy centre in Rivers State. “The first time I came, I had to stay at a hotel; but when I came for the treatment, I was lucky that I had a place to stay with my friends. “Even though I had a place to stay, I spent so much on transportation. I traveled to and from Lagos by air with my husband, and I was lucky that for the period I was there, the machine didn’t break down because there are so many people coming from various parts of the country for the treatment. “I spent about N800,000 for the treatment, including the consultation fee and the tests I ran,” Nwogu said. According to her, if there was a place for the treatment in her state of residence, she would not have spent so much on accommodation and transportation. Cancer and radiotherapy Radiotherapy is one of the major treatment options in cancer management, according to the World Health Organisation. “According to best available practice, 52 percent of patients should receive radiotherapy at least once during the treatment of their cancer. Together with other modalities such as surgery and chemotherapy, it plays an important role in the treatment of 40 percent of those patients who are cured of their cancer,” WHO said. It added that radiotherapy is a highly effective treatment option for palliation and symptom control in cases of advanced or recurrent cancer. Glory and Ifeoma’s ordeals provide insights into how cancer patients in the south-south are burdened by travelling far distances for treatment and living in an unfamiliar environment. And in the part of Nigeria where these patients stay, a Federal Government agency — the Niger Delta Development Commission, established with the sole mandate of developing the oil-rich Niger Delta region of Nigeria —  is currently being probed by the National Assembly for allegedly mismanaging N80bn [$207.48m]. Meanwhile, the price of a radiotherapy machine ranges from $2m to $4m, with all the accessories, according to the Chief Clinical Oncologist at the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, LUTH, Prof. Francis Durosinmi-Etti. Also, a clinical oncologist in Port-Harcourt, Dr. Olusegun Abayomi, said most of the patients he sees require some form of radiotherapy. “In a week, I see like between five and eight patients who require radiotherapy in my clinical experience here in Port-Harcourt. “But, that figure does not take cognizance of other hospitals, including private hospitals, or other south-south states. “South-south is a densely populated area and quite a number of patients come from this area. “A number of times, we have to start other form of treatment and find other way to help patients because radiotherapy is not available.” To continue reading this story, click here: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 