Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin The All Progressive Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party have blamed each other for the botched governorship debate which was to hold on Wednesday. A statement by John Mayaki, the Chairman of the Edo APC media campaign council, said the Nigeria Elections Debate Group had been forced to call off the scheduled debate between contenders in the Edo governorship race after the PDP’s candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, pulled out from the debate. The APC campaign council spokesman said Obaseki “is ashamed of his poor records and is unable to defend it without first perfecting his script of half-truths and lies.” However, the governor, while at the Oba of Benin palace for a peace meeting, denied knowledge the debate when the monarch asked him. Also, the governor’s Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said, “We are not aware of any debate and we have no commitment to it.” APC, PDP bicker over Oshiomhole auto crash In another development, the APC and the PPD have disagreed over the road crash involving the convoy of a former Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomhole, on Tuesday. The APC had on Tuesday described the incident in which two policemen died as a deliberate attempt to assassinate Oshiomhole. In a statement by  the Publicity Secretary of the  Edo APC, Chris Azebamwan, the party had alleged that the crash was a ‘premeditated plot’ to take the life of the former governor “who has been a thorn in the flesh of the PDP since his return from Abuja to join the campaign of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu.” He had said, “From all indications, including factual accounts from members of the entourage and other eye-witnesses, the unfortunate crash which took place at Oluku Junction Edo, was a plotted and near-successful assassination attempt.” But the state PDP on Wednesday described the claim as irresponsible. The state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chris Nehikhare, said, “The claim is childish, irresponsible and preposterous, and if anything, Oshiomhole should be answering questions over his convoy’s frequent involvement in road crashes that have claimed the lives of about 10 persons since 2008.” Nehikhare noted that “if the APC is sure about the intent of the truck driver that reportedly rammed into Oshiomhole’s convoy, even before investigation is carried out by the relevant agencies of government, the APC should also know who the assassin is, the sponsor, if any, and should be courageous enough to name them.” He said, “Before the latest accident that claimed the lives of two security personnel and left others severely injured on Tuesday at Oluku, there had been at least three other fatal accidents involving Oshiomhole’s convoy, or is the APC saying that all the crashes were assassination attempts?” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 