Friday Olokor, Abuja Indications have emerged of a looming fuel scarcity with Petroleum Tanker Drivers ordering immediate stoppage of distribution of petroleum products from Lagos to the Northern part of the country till further notice. The PTD in a statement on Wednesday by its national chairman, Otunba Salimon Oladiti, explained that the action became necessary following the shut out of heavy trucks, including tankers from using all the link roads in Minna, Niger State capital by the state government effective from the midnight of September 15, 2020. READ ALSO: CBN demands details of 12 top Nigerian businessmen, others’ domiciliary accounts He said, “We want to use this medium to inform the general public that from Thursday, September 17, our members will not be lifting products from Lagos to the Northern part of the country because the Niger State Government has shut out heavy-duty trucks including tankers from passing through the state. “The only alternative road is not motorable. This is Bida- Agai- Lapai- Lambata road. In fact, this road is a death trap. When we got wind of the plan of the Niger State Government to shut the roads about weeks back, I spoke to the Minister of Works through one of his aides and he assured that the ministry would do palliative and remedial works on the road. “Unfortunately, over two weeks after our discussion, nothing has been done on the roads. As leaders, we have to do the needful and protect the lives of our members from avoidable accidents and attacks from hoodlums. So, starting Thursday, September 17, 2020, our members will not be lifting products from Lagos to the Northern part of the country. Until the Federal Government makes the alternative road motorable, our members will not resume lifting of products to the Northern part of the country.” The PTD also released a letter to its State Chairman by the Niger State Government through its Ministry of Transport, dated September 9, 2020, by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Abdullahi Imam, informing them about its decision to shut out all heavy truck vehicles from passing through the link and major roads in the state from Tuesday. The letter reads, “You are aware of efforts of the Niger State Government to rehabilitate Minna-Bida road and major roads leading to Minna. These efforts have largely been frustrated because of the heavy presence of heavy trucks plying these roads. “In view of the foregoing, we hereby notify you of government’s decision for a total shutdown of all linking roads to Minna to heavy trucks from 12 midnight of September 15, 2020. You will please bring this information to all your members in order to guide them to find alternative routes for their movements.”