SUNDAY ABORISADE Female legislators in the National Assembly have formed a team to lobby their male colleagues for the purpose of ensuring the inclusion of women’s rights in the nation’s constitution. Several attempts made by the women in parliament over the years to ensure the entrenchment of womens rights in the Nigerian constitution had been futile. However, a former minority leader of the Senate who sponsored the GEO bill in the 8th National Assembly, Senator Biodun Olujimi, said the female federal lawmakers were not taking chances this time round over the matter. She said they would speak with one voice and lobby their male colleagues to ensure that the rights of women were included in the amended 1999 Constitution. Olujimi, in an interview with our correspondent, said her colleagues in the federal parliament would start holding strategic meetings as from next week to perfect their arrangement. She said apart from the bills submitted by the female federal lawmakers bordering on gender equality, scores of women groups and non-governmental organisations, had also submitted memoranda to the panel in charge of the constitution review. Olujimi said, “We have set up a team now from all over the geopolitical zones in the National Assembly and we will start meeting from next week to see how best we can handle the situation. “We pushed very hard in the 8th National Assembly even when we had many people who were very gender-friendly. We did our best to ensure its passage but it was frustrated on the floor. “We just pray that people will live up to their expectation of being legislators for Nigerians, not lawmakers for a particular section of the polity or inclination. “Until we start to have that thought, we will always be having the kind of challenges we encountered in the 8th National Assembly concerning the issue. This time round, we will involve the non-governmental organisations and funding partners to ensure its success.” No fewer than 183 women organisations on Wednesday appealed to the National Assembly to extend the deadline for the submission of memoranda on the review of the 1999 constitution to enable them to submit their own documents. The two-week deadline stipulated by the panel for Nigerians to submit memoranda on any aspect they were seeking an amendment to in the constitution lapsed on Wednesday.    , Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com