’Tosin Oluwalowo The Super Eagles will launch new jerseys designed by kit-sponsors Nike for national teams in October. This was announced in a statement by the NFF’s Communications Department on Tuesday. Nike Senior Director, Global Communications, Heidi Burgett, had February 5, shared the designs of the new national team’s jerseys on Twitter. “New 2020 kits for Nigeria: Home kit’s hand drawn design fuses the traditional aesthetic of an agbada robe w/ modern football design. Away kit trim is inspired by Onaism. Broader collection of Super Eagles apparel includes a poncho, vest, dress, & more,” Burgett wrote. Burgett’s tweet came after NFF president Amaju Pinnick confirmed to The PUNCH January 28, that the new national team jerseys would be unveiled in New York, London and Nigeria. Further plans for the unveiling were however put on hold due to COVID-19. Officials of the NFF, which include Pinnick, vice presidents, Seyi Akinwunmi and Shehu Dikko; General Secretary, Mohammed Sanusi; board members Ibrahim Musa Gusau and Felix Anyansi-Agwu; Director of Communications, Ademola Olajire; Head of Marketing, Alizor Chuks and Special Assistant to Pinnick, Nasiru Jibril met with officials of Nike Tina Salminen, David Watson and Lee Murphy via a virtual meeting on Monday. “Finishing touches were put to the designs with observations and comments taken, and Nike officials fully briefed on the minute details of the preferences of the NFF chieftains,” the NFF statement said. Nike had launched the present national team jerseys May 29, 2018, ahead of the 2018 World Cup in Russia, with the jersey receiving three million orders prior to its launch. Nike shops in the Uk ran out of stock just one hour after it was released to the market three days later. The jersey was rated number five best shirt worn by football teams in the last 52 years in a survey conducted by BBC Sports. The Super Falcons home kit was also voted the best jersey of the 2019 Women’s World Cup in France. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 