Dayo Ojerinde Ahead of the inauguration of its multi-specialist hospital, Evercare Hospital has unveiled a telemedicine platform in line with the hospital’s vision to provide quality and accessible health care services, harnessing technology to accelerate health care delivery in the country. The Chief Medical Officer of the hospital, Dr. Ayo Shonibare, in a statement said the coronavirus pandemic has shown that telemedicine platform could be leveraged to deliver health consultation to the patients. He said, “We are living in unprecedented times where patients avoid physical consultations in hospitals, and rather prefer virtual interactions with doctors, with remote care and monitoring, from the comfort of their homes. It has become important for the health care industry to reach out to their patients and introduce them to an all-new way of consulting with their clinicians. “On this premise, therefore, we have unveiled the telemedicine platform, Ecare to help fill the gap by providing patients the ability to consult remotely and also give them the satisfaction of having the doctors interact with them face-to-face. “Evercare exists to serve growth markets like Nigeria that need access to quality, comprehensive care that seeks to improve patient outcomes while reducing costs and increasing efficiency. As we seek to improve health outcomes for patients, we will provide the expertise and resources required to strengthen our model and drive enhanced multidisciplinary care delivery systems. We aim to strengthen the health care infrastructure by providing premium care via our enhanced patient experience.” Shonibare added that the platform has a two-way add on feature that allows the patient to invite a friend or family member on the consultation and at the same time permits the clinician to invite a colleague in case of a multi-disciplinary or complicated consultation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 