Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A 14-year-old secondary school pupil, Fathia Ojewoye, has been raped to death at the Agbeloba-Oriyonrin area of Abeokuta, Ogun State. The teenager had on Wednesday been declared missing by her parents, but her corpse was found three days after with some of her personal effects in an uncompleted building in the area. When our correspondent visited the residence of the deceased’s mother, who had separated from her husband, sympathisers were seen consoling her. When PUNCH Metro attempted to speak to her, she asked to be left alone. She, however, vowed to ensure that the killer(s) of Fathia, whom she gave birth to while in secondary school, was brought to justice. A source in the area told our correspondent that Fathia was sent on an errand by her mother to refill the gas cylinder around the area, but she did not return home. The teenager was reported to have been last seen with a young man, while she was going to the gas station. The young man, who lives around the area, was said to have run away, apparently to avoid arrest. It was gathered that her corpse was found in an uncompleted building near her grandmother’s residence. She was reportedly defiled in a brutal way and later murdered by yet-to-be identified person(s). The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident. Oyeyemi said investigation into the brutal killing of the teenager had commenced. He gave an assurance that the command would ensure that the perpetrators were apprehended soon. The police spokesman said the corpse had been deposited in the morgue of the State Hospital, Sokenu, Abeokuta. Oyeyemi added that arrangement was being made to conduct an autopsy on the corpse. Meanwhile, the Ogun State Child Protection Network, a coalition of non-governmental and civil society organisations, has condemned the incident. The network, in a statement by its Coordinator, Alfred Soleye, expressed shock over the brutal murder of Fathia. It urged the police to carry out detailed investigation and accurate forensics on exhibits recovered from the crime scene to ensure that the perpetrators were brought to justice. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com