I am passionately committed to free and fair election, but my own commitment is not enough if other actors at ground zero refuse to abide by the rules. I want to see democratic standards in the country raised higher at every level, but these cannot be achieved when politicians resort to do-or-die methods to gain power by any means or machination. The do-or-die mentality to politics is a threat to free and fair elections because the actors are more focused on winning than caring about a fair outcome that reflects the will of the people.” – The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) The statement above was captured in a press release by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, on Thursday and it was titled, ‘Edo election: President Buhari urges parties, candidates, security agents to behave responsibly.’ With the tensed political atmosphere in Edo State before and during Saturday’s governorship election, the pockets of violence that had been recorded in the course of the electioneering and the fear of manipulation of the exercise, such a message coming from the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, should suffice in neutralising the tension. Sadly, things are not always as simple as they appear in Nigeria, especially when it comes to elections and quest for public office. While the government assured the electorate and stakeholders that the election would be free, fair and credible, some of its actions ended up making a mess of those assurances, and it is not limited to the party at the centre. The latest of such contradictions was the decision by the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government to disburse funds to 2,000 women and youths across the three senatorial districts in the state, under the Micro Enterprise Enhancement Scheme, barely four days to the election. When the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party described the action as a ridiculous move by the APC and the Buhari-led Federal Government to induce voters, especially with the timing of the initiative, the APC dismissed the accusation as being panicky and a reflection of its fear of defeat. Interestingly, the APC had about two weeks ago alleged that Governor Godwin Obaseki, the candidate of the PDP in the election, was seeking approval for a N1.5bn loan from the House of Assembly for the purpose of using such funds to buy votes. But the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Stewart Efe, described the allegation as a campaign of calumny. But, this time round, the insinuation was perhaps strengthened by the fact that a number of those who anchored the MEES event wore caps and shirts bearing APC and the acronym of its candidate’s name, POI. Idia, the wife of the APC governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, was also seen handing the money to the beneficiaries. It is worthy of note that the initiative to empower the people is commendable, but the opposition party and some others who criticised the action, faulted the timing of the disbursement. While this was on, another  video went viral where women adorned with APC vests distributed fabric to women who tendered their PVC. Even though 14 political parties participated in the election, the exercise was believed to be a tough contest between the APC, which formed the government at the central, and the PDP, the party of the incumbent governor. When it comes to elections, the enormous power of the Federal Government, regardless of the party in control, cannot be underrated. And in a bid to make sure the candidate of the ruling party wins, the government does all kinds of things to sway voters to its side. It is now simply known as ‘federal might’ and it has somewhat become a part of elections. While the government of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, under the PDP platform, was accused of using the Independent National Electoral Commission to the advantage of the PDP across the country; former President Goodluck Jonathan, on the platform of the same party, was also accused of using security agencies and other logistics support to the advantage of his party during elections. From recent happenings, however, there are accusations that the ruling party, which promised ‘change’ before it assumed power in 2015, is no different from the PDP. “More distressing is that the APC, in its desperation, is shamelessly trying to use the Micro Enhancement Scheme to introduce diabolic measures and derail the electoral process,” the PDP said. Notably, this was not the first time the Federal Government would be enmeshed in such a controversy. Prior to the November 16, 2019 governorship election in Kogi State, the Senate approved N10bn refund to the state three days to the election, following a request by the President in October that the state be refunded for the federal projects executed by the state government, led by Yahaya Bello, the APC candidate in the election. The PDP, a major contender in the Kogi election, through the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinaya Abaribe, advised the APC-controlled Senate to delay the approval till after the election. However, the request was rejected by the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, who described the approval as mere coincidence. In 2015 in Kogi, the then governor, Idris Wada, who was the PDP candidate, raised the alarm that the Buhari government was playing politics with the bailout meant for the state. He said other states had received theirs but that despite completing the necessary documentation, the money was not released to Kogi to meet its obligations. “For one, the President has consistently stressed the role of morality in governance and there can be nothing more immoral than the willful deprivation of the right of our civil servants whose allowances and emoluments have remained unpaid owing to the economic downturn,” he added. There were apprehensions over the keenly contested Edo election, especially with fears that there might be violence. Thus, the two parties deployed several tactics to ensure they become victorious. Some weeks ago, the President said if not for the respect the party had for the country, government could have overrun the opposition with the army, police and other agencies, thus, some persons have argued it was the criticism that greeted the statement that made the government resort to such last-minute money sharing. Meanwhile, at the end of the exercise on Saturday, there were reports of large scale vote-buying by both parties. Commenting on the development, the Chairman, Partners for Electoral Reform and Convener, Say No Campaign Nigeria, Mr Ezenwa Nwagwu, said the disbursement was more of a moral issue, noting that the two parties are guilty of it. Nwagwu added, “The fact that somebody has a permanent voter card or a citizen of Edo State does not mean the person is a voter. A voter is somebody who has PVC and has approached the polling unit to cast their vote. “So, actions that take place outside the vicinity of the polling unit is not voter inducement, legally speaking even though perceptively, it can be called that. The Electoral Act covers these issues.” He added, “People can argue that voters are being induced but there is no law that says the government cannot do an empowerment programme anytime, but if the government does it on the day of the election at the polling unit, that would have been vote-buying or inducement, according to the Electoral Act. “However, you may not fault those who think such is meant to influence the choice of the voters, but both the PDP and the APC are involved in the sharing of gifts and money outside of the polling unit. So, you can raise moral issues but not legal issues. You can raise moral issues but those who do it did not tell you they are moralists, activists or clerics. “It’s not about any party; politicians do it because they are taking advantage of the legal loopholes to commit a moral crime.” He added, “On the issue of violence, I think the work the National Peace Committee and the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, did; their social capital and the moral weight they have put on the politicians, apparently deterred them (politicians) from being brazenly involved in violence. “It was the first time the NPC was intervening at the state level over the issue of violence. So, it could only take a full deviant to commit violence in the election this time round.” Also speaking, the National President, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, CDHR, Mr Malachy Ugwummadu, also believes the last-minute actions were tantamount to vote-buying and that both parties were involved in it. He added, “I have seen different videos alluding to vote-buying, but this practice predates this government. This has been the practice long before now, but the fact that a particular behaviour exists does not make it right. “The Electoral Act has clearly identified so many electoral offences, one of which is vote-buying. What is left is for INEC to find a way of identifying such misbehaviours and illegal actions and then report them to the security agencies, especially the police, for possible prosecution, based on the available evidence. This is the power they have under Section 150 of the Electoral Act.” Speaking further on the interpretation of the MEES by some persons as vote-buying, Ugwummadu said ordinarily governance should be separate from politics, but that people now use them interchangeably. He said, “On the issue of delivering government programmes at a time close to elections, except that Nigeria has come to the point where we misplace politics for governance and people interpret them interchangeably, it should not have been a problem ordinarily; that the government went ahead with the execution of projects, including empowerment of youth or women, which is consistent with their manifesto. “But what has become a moral burden is why the government had to wait till the week of an election that would be keenly contested, considering the level of hunger and want on the part of the people, to execute such a project. If you want to stretch it, you would say it went beyond a moral burden. It could be approximated in a way as inducement. “In the same state, there was a popular rumour that the governor had employed over 100 Special Advisers in the week leading to the election. So, if you juxtapose the two, you find that they cannot completely run away from the kind of inducement that the Electoral Act condemned.” Ugwummadu called on political parties to always educate their members to ensure that they could not be swayed by the opposing parties through financial inducement. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 