Do you agree that the police should oversee the activities and operations of regional security outfits such as Amotekun? I don’t think it is going to be very helpful or productive if Amotekun were subsumed under the police authorities. Meanwhile, I know that the Nigeria Police Force is constitutionally empowered to control crime in the whole of Nigeria. Now, what Amotekun is doing is like a self-help effort because the police appear to be overwhelmed in the Western states. But even within a self-help structure, when arrests are made, the persons are still turned over to the police for prosecution. What the vigilance group is doing – and Amotekun, that is what it is, just a vigilance group – is to extend the capabilities of the police agency. It is giving them more executive capacity such that they can govern the jurisdiction effectively, provide intelligence and nip attacks in the bud. I don’t support people taking the law into their own hands. Amotekun is a trained vigilance group. So the police must come to realise that they don’t have enough manpower. Nigeria should have a police force of over one million personnel right now, but we currently have less than 300,000. So, the country is under-policed. And if the police want to be smart, they should build partnerships with other local agencies such as Amotekun so that they will be able to arrest more criminals and prosecute them. So, in what ways can Amotekun and the police integrate their operations? They should partner in intelligence gathering to foil smart crimes. I think there is the extent of partnership and synergy that must exist that will see them share intelligence. This is better than subsuming Amotekun under the police. The police have so many challenges at hand and they must heal themselves first. But I am not saying Amotekun should have the power of prosecution – no, they don’t. But they can be on the ground to control crimes in an area – by just their presence. They will deter and detect crimes, apprehend perpetrators and take them to the police. That is how it is supposed to work. So, I mean that the power of detention and prosecution should continue to lie with the police. What Amotekun is doing is that they are providing more capacity and personnel; more deterrence and ability to stop crimes and arrest offenders. Amotekun does not have trained prosecutors; they don’t have the track record or pedigree to prosecute. The criminals are out there in the forests. They come out to attack people. With the proven ability of the government to not control crimes at the strategic level, we need to have people on the ground to deter criminal actions. Some Nigerians have expressed fear that if regional security outfits like Amotekun are not overseen by the police, they may become tools of political oppression in the hands of the state. How do we balance that? Well, that risk will always exist. This is why I am opposed to the creation of state police till today. For so many reasons, I am opposed to state police as a concept. Now, what I am saying is that the question of Amotekun is because we have an existential reality. We have people being kidnapped on a daily basis. Criminals come out from the forests to attack innocent persons and they can also attack very important personalities. If you or I were travelling on the road, we could come across them. They can pick us up and start asking for a ransom of N5m or N10m. If their victim is lucky, they will release them; if not, they will kill the person. So, we have seen a lot of these atrocities and we cannot fold our arms and allow things to continue that way. The society is organic; it grows. So this is a response to the current situation we find ourselves. So, if the criminals are already in the forests, and they are doing what they know how to do without any fear or hindrance, we have to stop them. Let us first deal with that. We will come back and deal with political enemies later. But there are also safeguards in the arrangement or structure. The vigilance group can pursue, arrest but they still have to bring their suspects to the police. That is why I said lynching is not allowed. They should not kill people during their operations. They should bring the suspects to the police and they will be duly prosecuted. Also, there must be interests after the handover. The vigilance group must follow up on the cases they hand over so that we will not have the case of the serial killer who escaped from police custody in Oyo State. So, this is part of the checks and balances we should have. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 