Sampson Itode,  Port Harcourt A lecturer at the Federal College of Education, Omoku, Rivers State, on Sunday said two men who were paraded before journalists along with other criminal suspects in the state were not kidnappers, but film-makers. Omuku said the wooden guns found in their possession were props for a recent movie shot by the suspects. He said, “I did not just give the student the props, I constructed them myself. He (one of the suspects) has a valid identity card from the acting academy. “I am a member of the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners and with my ID card, if I’m making props, I don’t need a permit to do so; my identity card covers me because I am a technical man of the Port Harcourt branch of my association.” The suspects, Samuel Bobmanuel and Justice Nwiigbara, were arrested by operatives of the Rivers State Police Command attached to Miniokoro Police Division on Wednesday, September 2, 2020. PUNCH Metro learnt that Bobmanuel, a student of the Federal College of Education, Omoku, Rivers State, was arrested after his crew member, Nwiigbara, was caught at a police checkpoint and a photograph in his mobile phone showed them posing with the fake guns. Both suspects confessed to have participated in a movie at Rumuosi community, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State, where they used the wooden guns and also took the snapshot. “Before I started shooting the movie, titled, ‘Shooting Spree’, I contacted the Choba Divisional Police Officer to seek his permission to use real guns for my production, but he refused to grant my request and advised against it, so I had to contact my department to use wooden guns and one of my lecturers granted my request and gave me the wooden guns to use for the production, assuring me that they were okay. “We shot the video at Rumuosi, but on Wednesday, the police came to my office after they saw a picture of the production in one of my actors’ phone and asked what we were doing with wooden guns; that was how we were arrested. Nwigbara, who claimed to be an actor in the movie, said he was arrested at the checkpoint and the police, after seeing the movie production photograph accused him of being a kidnapper. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 