Some Nigerians have argued that a bicameral legislature is too expensive for the country and that we need to switch over to a unicameral system to reduce the cost of governance. Do you agree with that submission? The argument that the unicameral legislature would save cost of governance and protect the Nigerian economy is fallacious because it is not based on truth and reality. It shows that the advocates of unicameral legislature don’t even understand the cause of the high cost of governance in Nigeria. The total cost of running the current bicameral legislature in Nigeria is less than three per cent of the national budget every year.  What will therefore be the quantum of saving if we scrap a whole chamber of the National Assembly that will be so monumental to help the Nigerian economy? What then is the cause of the high cost of governance since you have absolved the nation’s parliament from it? There is an urgent need to restructure the ministries,  departments and agencies of government. As of today, the recurrent expenditure of the Federal Government currently gulps the 70 per cent of the national budget. Because of the underdeveloped nature of our legislative arm of government due to military incursion, people fail to understand that we are an independent arm of government. The truth is that the bulk of  work of the democratic governance is the legislative arm. There are many MDAs which no longer have relevance in the scheme of things. They are really the cause of the high cost of governance. Agencies created for specific purposes are still being retained even when the reasons for creating them are no longer in place. I agree that we must address the cost of governance but it must be based on reality not on baseless accusations of the parliament. We must focus more on the MDAs while talking of reducing the cost of governance.  The Oransanye panel was put in place to address the situation so we need to consider its recommendations and do the right thing rather than beaming searchlight on the National Assembly and accusing it of being the cash cow. Some of those people calling for the scrapping of one of the two chambers of the National Assembly are your members. Are you saying they don’t know what they are saying too? They need to check the totality of what it takes to run the government rather that coming up with suggestions that are not based on reality. How will the scrapping of a chamber of the National Assembly address the huge debt and debt recurrent expenditure which is 73 per cent of the nation’s budget when the cost of running the federal parliament with about five different independent agencies is less than three per cent?  The call for the scrapping of a chamber of the National Assembly is being made out of ignorance of the nation’s economy and without scientific basis. They are merely playing to the gallery simply because some people came up with an idea that lacked facts. I agree that we will continue to remain underdeveloped as a nation if we fail to address the cost of governance but the scrapping of a chamber of the legislative arm is not the solution. Are you saying that Nigeria cannot practise a unicameral system? Those canvassing that or proposing it lack the appreciation of those who drafted the Nigeria’s constitution and recommended a bicameral parliament. Those proposing unicameral legislature don’t even understand the rationale behind the bicameral. The reason for a bicameral legislature in a society like Nigeria, is because of the multiple nature of our country. We have different tribes,  and multiple ethnic nationalities. The only way we can ensure some level of equality and adequate representation of the minority groups is to adopt a bicameral legislature. The National Assembly has two chambers. The House of Representatives is based on population. That is why,  when you look at the House of Representatives today, there are 360 legislators because representation there is based on population. Without the House of Representatives, the interest of the minority groups would not have been adequately taken care of at National level. The Senate on the other hand,  is based on the equality of all states. That is to create a check of possible abuse of the majority power if we have just a unicameral legislature. Bayelsa State with just eight local government areas for instance  has the same number of Senate seats like like Kano State with over 40 local government areas. The Senate is therefore based on equality to ensure a check on the possible abuse of the power of the majority. That is the basis for the adoption of the bicameral legislature in the Nigeria constitution. Unless we are saying that the rationale is no longer there, unless we  are saying that there t would be no fear of the oppression of the minority, then you can be talking of unicameral. So, people advocating the scrapping of a chamber are just saying that without looking at the rationale and the specific nature of our society. Even in the United States where we adopted our presidential system of government,  they also have a bicameral legislature. I will therefore implore our colleagues who are making statements without looking at the fundamental nature of their statement and how it can affect our diversity as a country to be cautious.  Even with the bicameral legislature, we still have instances when some ethnic minorities still feel that they are not equally represented in the national decision making. It appears as if those in the majority that are dominating perpetually. Another school of thought also argues that we could have the House of Representatives as a full time parliament while the Senate is reduced to a part time arrangement.  Don’t you think that is possible too? Those who are coming up with such suggestions don’t even understand the need for a bicameral legislature. The Senate is there to represent the equality of each state in furtherance of the Nigerian political development. It will halt the feeling of oppression that may arise if we retain only the House of Representatives which is based on population. Any society that does not take care of the  issue of equality,  justice and fairness is not far from crisis and disintegration. I insist that the legislative arm of government is the deciding factor in reducing the high cost of governance. The various MDAs at the federal level has to be radically pruned down to bring down the high rate of recurrent expenditure. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 