Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The secretariat of the Edo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal has been opened to receive petitions arising from the September 19, 2020 governorship poll in the state. A statement by the Secretary of the tribunal, Mr Sunday Martins, on Tuesday, said the High Court Complex in Benin, the Edo State capital, had been designated as the venue of the exercise. The statement read in part, “The general public is hereby put on notice that the Honourable President of Court of Appeal of Nigeria Hon. Justice M. B. Dongban Mensem has established the Election Petitions Tribunal Secretariat and accordingly constituted a panel in respect of the governorship election conducted in Edo State. “The Honourable Chief Judge of the state, Hon. Justice E. A. Edigin, has graciously approved the use of High Court Complex (Election Petition Court Hall), Sapele Road, Benin City for the tribunal exercise. The secretariat is now open.” Aggrieved candidates and political parties who were dissatisfied with the outcome of the Saturday’s election have 21 days to file their petition at the tribunal’s secretariat in Benin, from where the results of the poll were announced on Sunday. The Independent National Electoral Commission had on Sunday declared Governor Godwin Obaseki, of the Peoples Democratic Party, winner of the election. The President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem, had in line with her statutory powers, constituted judges to serve on the election petition tribunals for the governorship elections in Edo State and the forthcoming poll in Ondo state, as well as other legislative elections in different parts of the country. Ahead of the polls, the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, had on September 10, 2020 sworn in 85 judges to serve on the tribunals to adjudicate on disputes arising from the polls. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com