Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Workers in Ogun State have commenced a one-week warning strike over the failure of the government to implement the new minimum wage The State Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Emmanuel Bankole, declared  this after a three-hour closed door meeting between the leadership of organised labour and government officials which ended in a deadlock. The workers had given the state government a 14-day ultimatum to commence the payment of new minimum wage failure of which they vowed to embark on the strike. The ultimatum expired on Wednesday (today). The workers had earlier on Tuesday, stormed the governor’s office ,Oke-Mosan,Abeokuta to protest against the failure of the government to begin payment of the new  minimum wage and pension reform  bill among others . The leadership of the organised labour which comprises NLC ,Trade Union Congress and Joint Negotiating Council later went into a closed -door meeting with the government . Addressing journalists after the meeting, Bankole said the meeting between the labour and government had ended in a deadlock, adding that they decided to embark on a one week  strike. The labour leader lamented that the workers had been taken for granted for too long and accused governor Dapo Abiodun of being insensitive to their plights. Bankole said, “Unfortunately the negotiation is deadlock. And so the one week warning strike will commence 12 midnight tomorrow (Wednesday). He said, “The position of the government is unacceptable to us. What they said was that minimum wage will have to be delayed so that they can do certain things and we said no, enough is enogh haven waited for so long. But the Special Adviser to Governor Dapo Abiodun on Public Affairs, Remmy Hazzan expressed shock  over the warning strike. Hazzan admitted that the organised labour has legitimate demands, but the financial status of the state made it incapable to implement the minimum wage. He, however, said the government would continue to engage the workers in order to resolve the issue to avoid plunging the state into industrial disharmony. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 