Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Commissioner of Police in Ogun state, Edward Ajogun, on Tuesday paraded seven fake soldiers who were arrested in Lagos and Sagamu after their failed operation on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The CP, while parading the suspects at the command’s  headquarters at Eleweran, Abeokuta,  said the  suspects, who were members of a gang, had operated at  Ijebu-Ife around 2.30am on September 4 in military camouflage uniforms. Ajogun said the criminal gang engaged his men in a gun battle, which led to the death of one of them while seven others escaped. He said operatives of the Special Anti- Robbery Squad, led by CSP Muhammad Tijani fished out the suspects from their different hideouts within and outside the state. Ajogun said six of the suspects –  Ikechukwu  Alore, Ifeanyi Emmanuel, Chinbueze Kingsley, Obiora Michael, Elias John  and Vincent Magnus–  were arrested at different locations in Lagos. He added that the remaining one, Chigozie Michael, was apprehended in Sagamu, Ogun State. He said, “The gang leader, Obiora  Michael, who  sustained  bullet wounds  on his  abdomen, right hand  and thigh during the encounter  with the SARS operatives, was traced to his home in the Ajangbadi  area of Lagos  on September 17, where his wife  was treating  him, having lied to her  that  he sustained  the injuries  in a road accident.” Ajogun presented a cash gift of N100,000 to the SARS operatives as commendation for their efforts leading to the arrest of the suspects. He said, “Note that you are receiving the carrot today; please avoid the stick tomorrow by sticking to professionalism and excellence in every of your outings. While speaking with journalists, the gang leader said he had been into robbery for 13 years to feed his family. He explained that the gang came about the military uniforms when they attacked a passenger bus on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and found a bag containing the military uniforms. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com