Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. In many advanced countries, the full integration of technology into society is no longer viewed as new because there are loads of visible push and policy development towards this new way of life. This approach has given and continues to give technology companies in such climes what you would call the first-mover advantage in these emerging fields. Many of these technology solutions have been imported into Africa, and Nigeria has had its own share of this, right from the days when technology was nascent in this part of the world. Up to this day, foreign technology solutions have been finding their way into the country – a development that appears to have made it nearly impossible to succeed as an indigenous tech company. One begins to wonder how technologically advanced or otherwise Africa would have been if it had developed its own technology on its own and at its own pace. Notwithstanding the challenges, indigenous tech solutions continue to expand its horizon as a leveller with its foreign counterparts. In the poorest of developing countries, innovative ideas that have been turned into solutions have also sprung up to catch the world’s attention. With the most attention directed at health, agriculture, fintech and logistics, African start-ups have been able to come up with solutions that can solve challenges in their respective communities. Developing solutions, not just for the immediate community but also for ones that can meet up with international standards should be the focus of African startups. As an example, fintechs are good examples of how to develop solutions that can solve problems locally and still widely respected globally. In times like these also, where Nigerian businesses encourage remote work and social distancing, technologies are being developed around fintech to allow merchants get paid instantly, irrespective of their capacity, structure, or geographical location. One platform that comes to mind is Paylink.ng, a digital solution that makes individuals and small and medium enterprises receive swift payment on their transactions, from the stable of SystemSpecs, a software company in Nigeria. In the words of the Managing Director of SystemSpecs, John Obaro, “Paylink.ng was developed to address the pain point of SMEs and individuals who require an easy-to-use, personalised and memorable means of collecting money without sharing their account details. This need remains just as crucial at a time when various organisations need to collect funds for various purposes while practising social distancing.” In developing nations, fintechs that want to record good success are left with no other option than to develop solutions that would bring about unending satisfaction to the average citizens of their country, who live in a world of evolving expectations. The traditional means that the banks have adopted over the years for handling financial services are in no doubt stuck in long-established processes. These processes come with slowing the development that can address the challenges often faced by individuals and SMEs. Ever since the advent of fintechs, customers’ awareness has seen another level of engagement. An average individual or SME can perform financial transactions through web-based solutions. This is a clear indication of how trends in digital solutions can transform the whole financial agenda. The impact of digital solutions cannot be overemphasised as this has enabled more individuals and businesses to perform financial transactions beyond the traditional banks. Unlike most fintech start-ups in the country that commenced operations in the last five to 10 years, SystemSpecs has been around for close to three decades now, supplying Nigeria with indigenous tech solutions that have added great value to the nation at large. The most obvious one is the role Remita has played in ensuring that the Federation’s fund gets remitted to government coffers through the Treasury Single Account. As I mentioned before, technology solutions revolve around people. An innovative solution that will have a high rate of success needs to have the immediate members of its community in mind and this requires a thorough understanding of the environment in which you are operating. The essence of financial technology is to make transactions easier to perform without having to go through unnecessary stress. Web-based solutions for making electronic payments have grown with unprecedented speed over the years mainly due to the advent of Internet-based banking and shopping. The more technology continues to advance, the more the rise that the world will continue to see in the adoption of electronic payment systems and payment processing devices/solutions. With this increase, coupled with securing the transactions from getting compromised, the percentage of cash transactions will gradually see a decline. Considering the expanding popularity of web-based solutions for online transactions, the system of e-payments appears to be the next bus stop for SMEs and online consumers to have a good shopping experience. It allows SMEs, freelancers and other types of organisations to reach more customers, thereby resulting in increased sales. Customers pay at their convenience any day, anytime. All that is required is a connection to the Internet. This lowers the cost of a transaction, giving customers the ability to check on their virtual accounts to see their transaction history. The era of exposing yourself to online fraud when you send your bank account details to those you have never met before for Internet payment is gone. This is an example of the problem that Paylink.ng is trying so hard to solve. With advances in technology and a need for a better user experience, coupled with the need for millennials who spend most of their time on social media, It is most likely that they would prefer to visit your social accounts, rather than your website. Having this in mind, leading fintechs offer the option for SMEs to leverage their social media accounts in getting paid. As customer experience evolves, there will continue to be the need to integrate innovative digital solutions into making payment easier and friendlier to the consumers. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com