Peter Dada, Akure Twenty-three days to the governorship election in Ondo State, one of the aides of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, on Friday, resigned his appointment to team up with the state Deputy Governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi, ahead of the state governorship election. The aide, Mr Andrew Ogunsakin, resigned his appointment as the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Political (South). In a letter he addressed to the office of the governor, dated September 18, 2020, he indicated his interest in working for another party in the forthcoming election. The letter read, “Permit me your Excellency, to use this medium to convey my irrevocable decision to resign my position as Senior Special Assistant on Political (South) to the Governor of Ondo State with effect from today, September 18, 2020. “The call by my constituents that I should join the train to actualise a common aspiration different from what is offered by your government and your party stands at the root of my decision to quit at this point. Being an appointee, this will necessarily conflict with the performance of my duty to you, hence my resignation.” Meanwhile, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Ondo election, Eyitayo Jegede, has appealed to his supporters across the state not to allow unprovoked attacks prevent them from going out to vote. He made the appeal in Oba-Akoko in the Akoko South-West Local Government Area, two days after his campaign tour to the community was disrupted following the clash that ensued between PDP supporters and supporters of the ruling All Progressives Congress. No fewer than five persons were injured while many vehicles were vandalised in the violent clash. The PDP governorship candidate had, however, returned to the community to hold his campaign. He said, “People of Oba-Akoko, and our people in Ondo State generally; don’t allow these violent people in power to frighten you from coming out to vote on October 10. Don’t be dismayed and don’t let them put you at home on the Election Day. Come out and reject them with your votes.” Also, ahead of the governorship election, the APC candidate, Governor Akeredolu, while welcoming some defectors from the African Democratic Congress and the Zenith Labour Party in the Ondo East/ Ondo West Federal Constituency into the APC, said his party would win the election. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com