Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Comptroller-General, Nigeria Immigration Service, Muhammad Babandede, has directed that all intending passengers to China are to obtain a COVID-19 negative test certificate before departing Nigeria for the Asian country. With effect from September 1, 2020, they are required to take a nucleic acid test three days before departure. According to a statement on Friday by the NIS spokesman, DCI Sunday James, Chinese citizens are to apply for ‘Green Health Codes’ with ‘HS’ mark, while other foreign nationals, including Nigerians, are to complete the health declaration forms. The statement titled ‘Travel advisory for China, Europe and North America-bound passengers due to COVID-19’ said foreigners travelling to China and Chinese citizens must submit COVID-19 negative test certificates to the Chinese Embassy or Consulate in Nigeria for issuance of required clearance for their journey to China. It added, “Non-resident Nigerians in Europe and North America are to avoid transiting France pending the lifting of travel restrictions due to COVID-19. Transit passengers to Europe and North America transiting through Paris must endeavour to present a valid permanent resident permit for their final destination and COVID-19 negative test certificate to enable them to gain entry into France.” The NIS further stated that from July 1, 2020, only French nationals and residents were allowed into France with respect to the note verbale from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs conveying the travel advice from the French Embassy in Nigeria. The immigration service advised all China, Europe and North America-bound passengers to strongly abide by the rules to avoid denial of departure from Nigeria and repatriation from the countries concerned due to non-compliance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com