Sunday Aborisade, Abuja President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Wednesday, said for Nigeria to surmount the security challenges confronting it, traditional rulers should be given specific roles to be enshrined in the Constitution. Lawan stated this when a delegation from the Argungu Emirate visited him in his office at the National Assembly, according to a statement by his media office titled: ‘Traditional rulers should be given constitutional roles to tackle insecurity, says Lawan’. The Senate President, the statement added, explained that giving roles to traditional rulers would allow them to support the efforts of government and security agencies in addressing the challenges of insecurity. He said, “Traditional fathers have always been supportive of government. In fact, in the past, for those of us from the northern part of the country, the traditional leadership played a key stabilising role in administration. “Before 1976 when local governments were created, the traditional leaders brought both administration and management into focus, and we still need them. READ ALSO: Police arrest six Ogun herdsmen for abducting policewoman, NSCDC official “We need to have a proper role given to them, and especially in the current security situation. I’m sure that the traditional rulers can provide a lot of support for the government and security agencies in fighting the challenges of insecurity that we have today.” The delegation, which was led by Alhaji Ibrahim Hassan (Kundudan Kabi), said the visit was at the instance of the Emir of Argungu, Alhaji Samaila Mera, to thank Lawan for honouring the emirate’s invitation to attend the Argungu Fishing Festival as a special guest. Hassan, while conveying a goodwill message from the Emir, announced the conferment on the Senate President the esteemed traditional title of ‘Ganuwar Kabi’. The Senate President in his acceptance speech, thanked the Emir for the honour bestowed on him and expressed his willingness to be a “protector” of the emirate. Lawan, who also sympathised with the government and people of Kebbi State over the recent flooding, appealed to the Federal Government to provide interventions that would alleviate the plight of residents of communities affected by flood in parts of the country.