Olaide Oyelude, Katsina Participants at a one-day roundtable discussion in Katsina on Monday called on residents of the state to defend themselves against bandits and other criminals whenever they attack them again. They implored the people not to leave their defence in the hands of security agencies alone. Those who spoke at the roundtable, organised by the Katsina State Council of the Nigerian Union of Journalists as part of its 2020 Press Week, included the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Mustapha Inuwa, Governor Aminu Masari’s Special Adviser on Security, Mallam Ibrahim Katsina, the Chairman of the state Council of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Mallam Hussaini Hamisu; and the spokesman for the Katsina Police Command, SP Gambo Isah. The SSG said, “Security issues are a collective responsibility. The state, along with the Federal Government, has been doing all that is possible to ensure that bandits  and other criminals are flushed out of the state. People should also complement the efforts of the government and that of the security agencies. “People may form groups and register the groups in their various communities. Their activities should however be under the control of the Divisioan Police Officers in their areas. When you go out at night to monitor your community and come back in the morning, you should report your activities to the DPO.’’ Inuwa also challenged the media to do more investigative reports on why the state still has security challenges despite the efforts of both the state and the Federal Government in tackling the problems and despite the establishment of various security operations. On his part, the governor’s Special Adviser on Security said, “The criminals are living in your community. They are not spirits. We know that with people’s cooperation, we can jointly deal with the bandits and other criminal elements in our midst.” The spokesman for the Katsina Police Command implored the people to be courageous and volunteer information on the criminals in their communities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 