Temiloluwa O’Peters The Nigerian Conservation Foundation, an environmental nongovernmental organisation, has commemorated the International Vulture Awareness Day across the nation through some webinars. A statement signed by NCF Head of Communications, Oladapo Soneye, on Friday said IVAD was celebrated every first Saturday of September to reflect on the importance of vultures and the essential role they play in a healthy ecosystem. He stated that it was also aimed at spreading awareness on the threats facing vultures and to urge people to take action to prevent extinction of the ecological bird species. Director of Technical Programmes, NCF, Dr Joseph Onoja, in his presentation said nature bestowed vultures as environmental sanitary officers with a clean-up service worth $11,000 in a year. He emphasised that without vultures, humans were vulnerable to the spread of infectious diseases because in their absence, dogs and rats become the clean-up crew. “The danger in this is that these animals are not equipped for such and are close to human population, exposing us to diseases,” Onoja said. In his presentation, Conservation Biologist and Ornithologist, Aniekan-Abasi Uwatt observed that human activities were the major drivers to the vultures’ threatened status. He added that the world could suffer from negligence if something drastic were not done to preserve the remaining vulture species. “Imagine a world without vultures; it will lead to disease outbreaks such as anthrax, rabies and botulism. We would also have dirty environment with dead carcasses and foul smells,” he said. Another facilitator, a lecturer at the Federal University Dutse, Apeverga Tersoo, said vultures did the dirty jobs of cleaning the environment by taking care of carcasses and preventing the spread of diseases keeping the ecosystem healthy. He gave a case study in India where a crash in the vulture population was observed after the birds fed on carcasses of livestock that were treated with Diclofenac. According to him, the Indian white-rumped vulture was the most hit, with a decline rate of 99.9 per cent. Tersoo said, “What followed was a surge in population of feral dogs that were infected with rabies from litters of carcasses as a result of the absence of our natural cleaners. “Consequently, an increase in human deaths from rabies nearly caused a public health catastrophe that saw the government of India spending about $34bn to fight the spread of the disease.” Wildlife Hazard Management Coordinator, Kano Airport, Samaila Alkali, noted that aviation was a major threat to the survival of vultures. He noted that this was due to bird strike, when birds physically collide with aircraft. Alkali said, “Approximately 10,692 vultures were killed by aircraft between 2008-2015. These may represent 1500 vultures killed every year for the period of seven years.” Also in his presentation, Head of Forest Centre, International Institute of Tropical Agriculture Ibadan, Adewale Awoyemi, observed that the destruction of habitats by deforestation was a threat to vulture conservation. The statement added that Nigeria was home to seven out of the eleven types of vultures that existed in Africa, with only two species that seemed to be thriving in the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com