‘Tosin Oluwalowo World Athletics is expected to rule on the legitimacy of Ibrahim Gusau as the President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria after the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal filed by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development on Friday. WA had in a letter dated August 27 signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Jon Ridgeon, and addressed to Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, said it would take a decision on the crisis rocking the AFN after the Court of Appeal gave its ruling. “According to our records, we understand that the mandate of the Board, including the President, is until June 2021. It seems to us that whatever the outcome of the court proceedings, in order to ensure there is no ambiguity and all stakeholders are absolutely clear, it will become necessary to engage with the membership of the AFN on the status of the constitution and the President, whoever that may be in the future, to ensure they have their constitutional endorsement. As I am sure you will agree, ultimately these are matters for the membership to manage, consider, and decide in the long-term. “We await the outcome of the Court of Appeal proceedings and will write again when we have received notice of this,” WA said in the letter. The AFN had been enmeshed in crisis after the Gusau-led AFN declared autonomy from the sports ministry last December at the federation’s congress in Anambra State. Another faction led by Gusau’s vice president, Olamide George, however, suspended Gusau as the AFN president. The feud forced Gusau to drag the sports ministry to the Federal High Court in Abuja, where the court ruled July 1 that he remains the AFN president. The Appeal Court also affirmed the High Court ruling on Friday after the sports ministry’s appeal was thrown out for lacking merit. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com