Dele Ogunyemi, Warri A notable vegetable oil processing firm in Delta State, Benzor Multi-Concept Co. Ltd., has attributed its stunted growth to insecurity in the state. The Managing Director of the company, Mr Nwabuzor, said funding and technical expertise were other challenges the company was grappling with. Nwabuzor said these while receiving a delegation of Delta State Investments Development Agency led by its Chief Executive, Chief Lucky Oghene-Omoru. The delegation paid a working visit to the company located at Issele-Mkpitime in Aniocha North Local Government Area of the State. Nwabuzor said the business had been ‘challenged by insecurity, funding and lack of technical expertise’. He solicited for government’s support in order to surmount the challenges. He disclosed that the exposure he got from attending SME workshops and seminars in the recent past, in particular, the recently organised NEXIM Bank/DIDA organised South-South Export Enlightenment and Engagement Forum awoke in him the need to expand his business and enter into full-time export. “I am optimistic that with the support of DIDA, I will be able to get access to funds and business ideas that will enable me to expand my business,” he said. On the quality and viability of the plantation, he explained that the firm ensured that the best quality oil was produced in the plant. He said, “The palm trees are well treated and I ensure that the oil is extracted immediately we harvest. “I employ adequate labour to ensure pruning, treatment, harvest and processing.” He further stated that he had been able to nurture over 3,000 stands of oil palm trees and from these he recorded an annual palm oil production of over 10,000litres which he sells locally and to a major off-taker from Ghana. Oghene-Omoru, announced that the Agency has mapped out strategies to support the activities of SMEs in the state with a view to ensuring their growth. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com