Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Nigerian Air Force on Tuesday commenced the construction of an aircraft maintenance hangar at its Special Operations Command in Bauchi State. Sitting on a plot of land donated by the Bauchi State Government straddling the NAF Base and the Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa International Airport, Bauchi, the aircraft maintenance hangar, when completed, would not only serve the NAF and the aviation industry nationwide but would also drastically reduce the timeframe for turnaround maintenance of NAF platforms. This is expected to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of airpower employment in the fight against insurgency. Speaking during the ground-breaking ceremony at the project site, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State commended the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, for “his exemplary, result-oriented leadership of the NAF.” He also acknowledged the supreme sacrifice of service personnel, not only in ensuring the unified existence of the country but also in preserving democracy. According to a statement by NAF spokesman, Air Comm. Ibikunle Daramola, the governor noted that the success and performance of NAF was determined by how well its aircraft were maintained and sheltered. He said, “Therefore, it is indeed a good opportunity to be part of this epoch-making event as this aircraft maintenance hangar would serve as a storehouse and maintenance shelter for the precious platforms of the NAF and other aircraft that could be maintained at the hangar.” The governor further noted that Bauchi State would benefit both during and on completion of the project through employment opportunities for members of the host communities. In his remarks, the CAS stated that the flag-off of the construction of the aircraft maintenance hangar would significantly add value to NAF’s operations in the North East, North West and in the entire country. He added that the hangar would also ensure that the NAF engineers, technicians, aircraft and other equipment that were to be deployed in Bauchi would be protected from the vagaries of weather and thus operate in a conducive environment. “By its strategic location, Bauchi provides our aircraft with the reach required to adequately respond and provide support to our troops fighting against insurgency/terrorism in the North East, banditry in the North West as well as other security challenges in North Central,” Daramola added.