Kayode Oyero For the first time since the beginning of the politicking and electioneering process for the 2020 Edo State Governorship Election, the two major contenders in the poll met physically on Sunday evening to share their visions and objectives with the people of the state. The All Progressives Congress candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu; and the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, who is seeking re-election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, had earlier attended a virtual debate organised by the BBC Pidgin but the two juggernauts stood face-to-face before a live audience on Sunday evening during the Channels Television Edo Governorship Debate. The debate organised the television station and its partners comes exactly a week to the September 19, 2020 governorship election. At the debate, the moderator, Seun Okinbaloye, asked the candidates their plans to revive the state economy, especially along the lines of employment creation and industrialisation. According to the moderator, the Human Development Index of the state in 2008 was 0.622 per cent and Edo State stands at 12th out of 36 states. Also, in 2019, Edo State has a poverty headcount level of sixth out of the 36 states of the federation. Responding, Obaseki said, “In terms of human capacity and employment, that is one area we believe we have accomplished quite a lot. On the onset, I promised I will raise a minimum of 200,000 jobs within a minimum of a four-year period. And just before COVID-19 pandemic hit, we had created directed and indirect jobs for Edo people as much as 157,000. “And where did the jobs come from? They came from the way the government decided to address the economy. The government role is creating an enabling environment for people to come and invest so that the economy can thrive.” But the APC candidate disagreed with the statistics given by the governor, saying he falsified the data. Ize-Iyamu said, “Well, it is sad that when the government that should be accurate with figures begins to falsify figures. If it is true that we have been able to have the number of jobs that the Edo State governor claims, our IGR will not be where it is; there will be a significant leap but I can tell you and they know, it has stagnated. “What they call jobs and people were trained it is nothing and I hope the governor is not going to mistake the appointments he is doing now as jobs because I know that in the past one month, he has appointment over 200 people as SSAs on social media and the rest of them. Those are not jobs. When you say you created jobs, we know for example that there is a glaring vacancy in the teaching profession. The schools we went, they practically had no teachers, nobody was employed, so, for a governor who claims he has created jobs, the sector as vital as education, you have left it the way it is and most of the hospitals don’t have doctors. “So, when you are talking about jobs, where are the jobs, who did you give them to? It is sad when government that should be accurate with fact begins to feed our agencies with bogus statistics in an attempt to give an impression that we are doing well when we are not doing well.” Obaseki in his reaction noted that the data he gave was verifiable and based on a survey conducted by the National Bureau of Statistics, saying, “You can’t just come to a debate and mouth figures forgetting that everything you say can be googled. When you talk in general terms, understand that people can just google and find out the facts.” But Ize-Iyamu maintained, “I think that in the past four years, the economy of Edo has been mismanaged, has been plundered and all the huge amounts that we receive at the inception of this administration has practically left our state without any serious project to show for it. “We had the opportunity to diversify our economy. The governor made what I might call a very lame attempt and he failed completely and we are in a very sorry state. During Christmas for example, people were going to Abakaliki to bring rice, they were going to Kebbi to bring rice.” Details later…