Joseph Olaoluwa Thousands of air passengers were left stranded on Monday as workers under the auspices of the National Union of Air Transport Employees and the Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, Arik Air branch, grounded the operations of Arik Air nationwide. The workers on Monday fulfilled their threat to begin to embark on a strike action to press home their demand for better conditions of service. The workers were seen carrying placards with inscriptions such as: ‘Modern slavery in Arik Air Limited’ and ‘We say no to slavery’. They barricaded the entrance of the airline at the Murtala Mohammed Airport, causing gridlock along the airport road in the process. The demonstration affected  many passengers who had booked to travel with the airline to several destinations across the nation. The Chairman of the Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, Innocent Atasie, said the strike action must go on despite a mediatory meeting scheduled by the Nigerian Civil Aviation for Tuesday (today). Atasie said there would be no suspension of the strike until the demands of the workers are met. He said, “The strike will continue. We are still here. No suspension. We have not got our needs, our requests and our demands.” He said the union had been negotiating conditions of service with the management for two years running. He said, “For over two years, we have been on the negotiating table with Arik Air management over staff conditions of service. “As we speak, we have no conditions of service. Arik is about 14 years old and there is no condition of service.” Atasie also sought the immediate reinstatement of workers sent on compulsory leave without pay. He added, “Arik has become a slave camp. About 90 per cent of Arik Air workers have been sent on compulsory leave without pay since April till now. Some families are dying and falling sick. “Now, landlords are chasing our members away and that is the case. For this strike to be called off, we are asking for immediate reinstatement of workers that have been at home.” Arik Air management had last week written to the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, to intervene in the dispute, saying the contention affected less than 20 per cent of its over 1,600 workforce. Atasie faulted the letter written by the airline’s Managing Director, Capt. Roy Ilegbodu, saying the workers demanding for conditions of service were not asking for too much. He said the workers wanted the remittance of deducted pensions and better conditions of service, adding that COVID-19 was no excuse for poor welfare. Atasie said, “We have engaged them for over two years. They are moving forward and back. Arik Air workers are at home, no condition of service. This is my 13th year in the airline; no condition of service. “COVID-19 affected Arik Air but the figures are improving. More aircraft have been brought. More routes have been opened. More planes have been brought into the fleet. Port Harcourt and Abuja carry full capacity. Passengers are responding positively. “They are diverting and embezzling the money. The present receiver-manager of Arik Air is Kamilu Omokhide and should be removed. Let the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria and the Presidency remove him.” Atasie gave four conditions for the strike to be called off. He asked the management to put in place favourable conditions of service, recall all Arik Air workers on compulsory leave back to work and remit all deducted pensions to their pension managers. He also asked the airline to make available to them the agreement between Arik Air and the new airline, NG Eagle. In a reaction, the airline apologised to passengers whose travel plans were disrupted by the strike action. A statement by the spokesperson of the airline, Adebanji Ola, described the picketing of its premises as illegal since they had already embraced dialogue ahead of a meeting scheduled for Tuesday by the NCAA. The airline assured passengers of a safe working environment as they put heads together with the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Ministry of Aviation and Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority to resolve all issues with the unions and staff. Customers who were unable to fly were instructed to modify their tickets for flights in the future at no cost. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 