Huawei recently announced the HUAWEI Y6p, an entry level device that has a triple-camera system, 64GB of storage and a massive 5000mAh (typical value) battery as its top features. The battery life it offers is the longest yet we’ve seen so far from the HUAWEI Y Series. As we’re all practically living on our smartphones these days, having a handset that offers a good battery can come in handy at times. Texting, browsing on social media like Instagram, listening to music, reading eBooks are basically all the most common use cases. That’s why today we’re using these scenarios to set up our battery test. Let’s see how the HUAWEI Y6p fares on a full charge. The HUAWEI Y6p was put through the following tests: 720p video playback, social media browsing, eBook reading and music playback via headphones. After a one-hour video playback session: 96% charge remains (4% delta) After browsing social media platforms for one hour: 91% charge remains (5% delta) After viewing eBooks and playing music via headphones for one hour: 87% charge remains (4% delta) I’ve used the device lightly for the rest of the day, then put it on standby. The device stayed powered for another 48 hours – by then I’ve lost my patience. All in all, light users should have no problem getting two-day battery life from the HUAWEI Y6p. And during my tests, I’ve encountered no performance issue switching between tasks. The HUAWEI Y6p may come with a big battery – but it remains a pretty lightweight device. Finally, the HUAWEI Y6p includes a super useful feature: reverse charging. All you need is an OTG cable to transform the device into a 6W portable power bank to charge other device such as smartphones and wireless earphones – great for when you need to help a friend out. The HUAWEI Y6p includes a 6.3-inch LCD HUAWEI Dewdrop Display, demonstrating the craftsmanship you’d expect from a Huawei device. It also features a high peak output volume like its predecessors (higher than general smartphones). It runs Huawei’s latest EMUI, which supports Face Recognition, Eye Comfort Mode, knuckle gestures[1], Simple Mode and more. Available in Midnight Black, Emerald Green and Phantom Purple, the HUAWEI Y6p retails for NGN 64,900 (3GB+64GB). You really shouldn’t miss out on it.