Kelvin Ekerete Nigerian footballers and fans have expressed excitement at the new national team jerseys, which were unveiled by sports kits manufacturing giants Nike and the Nigeria Football Federation on Sunday. The jerseys were displayed on the NFF and Super Eagles social media handles. The kits released include the home and away jerseys, training kits and tracksuits. Eagles stars Wilfred Ndidi, Alex Iwobi and William Troost-Ekong, who wore the new jerseys, said they were impressed with the kits. “Ready to defend my new stripes. So proud to wear the new Nigeria kit. Naija stand up,” Udinese defender Troost-Ekong wrote on Instagram. “New vibes, feeling the new Naija kit,” said Everton forward, Alex Iwobi. “Excited to share my new Nigeria kit with you. So proud to be a Nigerian,” Leicester City midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi wrote on Instagram. Super Falcons stars Asisat Oshoala and Rashidat Ajibade also expressed delight at the newly unveiled jerseys. Fans commended the manufacturer for factoring in the country’s culture in the new jerseys. Yusufu Musa said he couldn’t wait to see the Eagles play in their new kits. “Go and make us proud with the new jersey. We are waiting on the World Cup to come to Africa, break the bridge. I’m tired of not seeing you guys representing the nation. I can’t wait to watch the friendlies,” Musa wrote on Twitter. “We are going to win the best jersey and kit again for our next tournament,” wrote Ebere Nwankpa. “Lest for the jersey, FIFA should give us (Nigeria) the World Cup. Unfortunately, football isn’t all about the jersey. We can do better to improve a lot of Nigerian football,” @fiiwasayeyi wrote. “I have a dream that one day, the Eagles will play as beautiful as our jerseys look,” @bigtenor23 tweeted. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com