Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Power generation and distribution companies on Thursday said they were unaware of any N200bn that was paid to the power sector by the Federal Government in the past three days. Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari, had announced on Wednesday that the Federal Government paid over N200bn for power supply in Nigeria. When contacted on Thursday on the matter, the Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies, the umbrella body for Gencos, Joy Ogaji, told our correspondent that she was not aware of any N200bn payment. She said, “For the records, Gencos have not received fresh funds from anyone. What Gencos have received is payment for energy produced and consumed for 2019. “Gencos have not received any funds of any nomenclature – palliative, stimulus or coronavirus funds. We are currently being paid the money owed for 2019. We take exceptions to our name being used to score political points.” Ogaji argued that operators of power generation companies were private businessmen with patriotic zeal. According to her, it was imperative to state that while political points were scored, Nigerians were misled and incensed against the operators, adding that Gencos had made adequate power available for all Nigerians. “Below are figures of our performance from February till date to buttress our assertion of making power available. Nigerians should ask why this power is not getting to them,” Ogaji said. She noted that in February, available generation capacity was 9,440 megawatts, average generation was 4,629MW, while stranded generation was 4,811MW. In March, the Gencos put available generation capacity at 8,318.07MW; average generation, 3,912.47MW, stranded generation, 4,405.61MW. Also from April 1 to 14, available generation capacity was 8,269.31MW; average generation, 3,951.23MW and stranded generation, 4,961.96MW. Power distribution companies also stated that the N200bn was not paid to them and was not for the proposed free electricity. “It has nothing to do with the Discos and has nothing to do with the palliative that is being proposed. Let the President pass the law. I know you have not seen any law on palliatives that has been passed,” an impeccable source with a distribution company said. The official, who pleaded not to be named as he was not authorised to speak on the matter, added, “When they pass the law and the President signs it, then the content of it will tell us what the development is.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.