Nike Popoola Risk Managers Association of Nigeria has urged big and small institutions to adjust their business practices to enable them survive post COVID-19 pandemic because there will be an emergence of new business and consumption attitude. The President, RIMAN, Mr Magnus Nnoka, said this on Tuesday, during a webinar organised by RIMAN and Ernest Young where they discussed ‘Risk management for business resilience.’ Nnoka said, “We are in a crisis period globally and also in Nigeria and what this means is that when we come out the COVID-19 pandemic, we are going to be talking of the past because we are going to see a new normal and that new normal means that some of the risk approaches we have used in the past would not be of use anymore “We are going to see a new normal which would come with opportunities and challenges and of course would come with new approaches.” Nnoka noted that businesses with good risk management principles would survive post pandemic. He said, “The best practice wherever risk management is seen as a culture remains that risk managers are involved at the beginning in designing business strategy and any institution that deviates from this would do reactive risk management. “What has happened in the last few months is that risk managers have had to go back to reassess their risk management framework, businesses continuity framework, risk appetite and risk strategies. “For a business to be there for a long while, you need to take your risk manager from the beginning. At these times, the institutions that would come out stronger and survive are institutions that have embedded risk management culture as part of their day to day life.” Partner, Advisory Leader at Ernest Young West Africa, Mr Ben Afudego, also noted that risk managers were inclined to adopting risk management practices to mitigate the aftermath of the COVID-19 crisis.  Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.