Johnson Okafor FMDQ Depository has been appointed sole depository to Lagos State N100bn bond and joint depository to Dangote Cement N100bn bond. The FMDQ in a statement said with the support of market stakeholders, FMDQ Depository had successfully onboarded some of the choicest bonds onto its platform, with its appointment as sole depository to the Lagos State Government bond, and more recently, as a joint depository to the Dangote Cement bond. It noted that the foresight of the Lagos State Government in choosing FMDQ Depository for its most recent bond was an indication of the state’s alignment with progressive market development in Nigeria. “Indeed, Dangote Cement Plc should also be commended as it has made history by giving investors power, for the first time in the Nigerian capital market, to determine which depository to lodge their assets with, thereby validating the SEC’s vision of diversification and healthy competition for the market, motivated by FMDQ’s global competitiveness agenda. “As FMDQ Depository is not saddled with the administrative task of allocating the International Securities Identification Numbers and Legal Entity Identifiers, the depository will remain focused on building its core competencies, including efficient and value-added service delivery to market stakeholders, which is the crux of the depository service. “To ensure operational efficiency and facilitate ease of implementing investor’s choice of depository, FMDQ Depository had been advocating, right from its inception, for the SEC-registered central securities depositories in Nigeria to embrace operational collaboration towards promoting the global agenda for interoperability between their systems, thereby effectively empowering investors to deal on their exchange of choice in Nigeria, irrespective of which depository their assets are held.” The statement quoted the Chief Executive Officer of FMDQ Group, Mr Bola Onadele, as saying, “We are excited as we embark on another phase of implementing FMDQ’s Gold Agenda – with the overarching objective of making the Nigerian financial market globally competitive, operationally excellent, liquid and diverse. “The FMDQ Depository completes the value chain of pertinent market infrastructure for the pre-trade, trade and post-trade spectrums provided by FMDQ Group – from listing to trading, clearing, settlement, asset servicing and data and information, amongst other services. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     