ENYIOHA OPARA Members of a vigilance group in the Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State, on Saturday protested against the killing of six of their members and several others by bandits in a gun duel at Rafi Council recently. The group also threatened to suspend their operations, accusing the state government of being insensitive to the plight of its members who sacrificed their lives for the state. The Vice Chairman of the group, Tanko Maiyaki, spoke in Minna while condoling with families of the victims, described it as an irreparable loss to the community. Maiyaki lamented that his members were using local weapons and dane guns which he said failed them during the battle with bandits, thereby exposing them to danger. He said, “Unless government rises to the challenge of providing our members with modern and sophisticated weapons which would match those of the bandits, they will no longer expose themselves to danger such as the one that led to the loss of some of them.’’ Earlier, a member of the group, Sunusi Aliyu, said the government was indifferent to their welfare and family members despite sacrificing their lives for humanity. Aliyu said ideally education of children of the deceased ought to have been taken care of by the state government. The District Head of Mariga, Ilyasu Ibrahim, described the death of the vigilantes as painful and sad, stressing that they contributed immensely towards protecting lives and property of people of Mariga and some neighbouring council areas. A former chairperson, caretaker committee Mariga Local Government Area, Alhaja Riskat Giwa, and Chairman Yam Sellers Association, Alhaji Isa Auwal, who spoke individually to our correspondent, appealed to the government to equip them with the needed tools to function effectively. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  