Umar Muhammed and Hindi Livinus The Nasarawa State Government has said work has already commenced to convert the hostel built to accommodate displaced flood victims in Shabu in the Lafia North Development Area, into a 300-bed isolation centre for COVID-19 patients. The Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, disclosed this while hosting officials of the Nasarawa State Students Association, who were at the Government House on a courtesy call on Tuesday. The governor explained that even though the state had yet to record any case of COVID-19, there was the need to prepare for any eventuality, especially with the state’s proximity to Abuja, which has continued to record more cases of coronavirus. The governor said, “Yesterday, we started our work on the 300-bed isolation centre that we are opening up in Shabu. “We are trying to pray for the best, but to prepare for the worst. That is our situation in Nasarawa State. We are trying to ensure that the only way we can protect our people is by preparing for any eventuality while praying that that eventuality will not come.” Sule said his meeting with the FCT minister, head of the military, as well as the Chairman, Federal Government Committee on COVID-19, was aimed at improving the level of security at the border area, in Nyanya. He added, “The FG has already concluded arrangement to send beans, rice and other items that will be distributed to over 4,000 households in the state. What we are doing at the moment is the logistics and the support to make sure that all those food items will go door-to-door, to every benefiting household.” Meanwhile, the Adamawa State Government said on Tuesday that it would convert a section of the state Psychiatric Hospital on the premises of the state Specialist Hospital into an Isolation centre. The conversion, according to the Adamawa State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Abdullahi Isa, followed the directive by the Federal Government urging states to provide at least 300 bed-sized for isolation and  treatment of suspected cases of COVID-19. Isa, who made this known while giving an update on the level of preparedness of the state to contain any outbreak of coronavirus said the conversion would create additional bed space in addition to the 32 beds at the isolation centre at the Adamawa-German hospital. The commissioner also maintained that the state had yet to record any case of corona virus. He debunked claims of a suspected case in Shelleng where pandemonium was caused by people who were running away from a woman who had a running nose and was sneezing. He said upon receiving the information, the surveillance team went to the community to discover that “it was just common cold and not COVID-19.” ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.