Angela Onwuzoo An adolescent psychiatrist has warned that if special needs children do not have access to their behavioural interventionists on account of the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, it could rob them of their routine care and aggravate their condition. To effectively cater for children with special needs in Lagos State, especially during health emergencies such as the global COVID-19 pandemic, the state government was urged to have a register of all names and details of children living with autism and other neuro developmental disorders. “This is for proper planning,” Child and Adolescent Psychiatrist at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Dr. Olayinka Atilola, said. Atilola said the register would enable the government to accommodate children with neurodevelopmental disorders in its planning and also reach out to their parents easily with support in the ongoing fight against COVID-19 in the state. Dr. Atilola said without urgent and adequate support for households of children living with autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders during this period of lockdown, the condition of those children could aggravate. According to him, during a lockdown like this, most children with autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders are faced with distress and become restless because most behavioural interventionists are no longer accessible to them. He told our Correspondent in an exclusive interview that some of their challenges were further compounded by the fact that some of their parents were not technically equipped to manage them. Highlighting the consequences of the lockdown on the children, Atilola said, “With the lockdown, they will not be able to continue with whatever interventions they are receiving and this will interrupt their behavioural programme. “Second, the lockdown alters their routine and when their routine is altered, they become restless and the burden of care will increase. “The cost of managing them will increase because the expert who is to provide care for them is not even available. “But, I must state that, the issues affecting children with autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders are bigger and beyond lockdown. “This is because, managing children with neurodevelopmental disorders comes with financial, psychological and emotional strain,” he said. He also added, “Parents with children with autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders in Nigeria continue to face enduring challenges, whether the country is in a lockdown or not. “The challenges had existed before the lockdown, but were aggravated by the lockdown.” Atilola said children with autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders in Nigeria were suppose to have a register. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  