Success Nwogu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress on Friday said Easter emphasises, acknowledges and appreciates the redemptive blessings of the ultimate love, sufferings and sacrifices of Jesus Christ for the common good of mankind. The APC, National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement also said the APC joined Christians in the celebration of Easter which, he noted commemorates the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. He said, “Indeed, Easter emphasises, acknowledges and appreciates the redemptive blessings of the ultimate love, sufferings and sacrifices of Jesus Christ for the common good of mankind.” He stated that globally, people are in dire times, added that collectively, they should find inspiration in the time-honoured selfless disposition of Jesus Christ as they strive to eliminate the Coronavirus pandemic. He also called for collaborative, concerted and effective fight against COVID-19. He thank and pray for the medical, humanitarian, relief, security and other allied personnel in the frontlines of the fight against the Coronavirus. Together we will defeat the Coronavirus pandemic. Issa-Onilu said, “A devastating public health crisis that has affected and disrupted every sector is upon us– every sector and individual must therefore be involved in the fight against the Coronavirus. So as we commemorate Easter with family and loved ones, we must understand that these are unusual times and our personal and collective responsibility are required more than before to stay safe. To achieve this, we must continue to adhere to directives on social distancing and other public health protocols aimed at containing the pandemic. “As Nigeria complements global efforts to contain further spread of the Coronavirus, the APC reiterates the charge by the World Health Organisation Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus while addressing the March 2020 Extraordinary Summit on COVID-19, that we must fight the Coronavirus like our lives depend on it, because they do; unite, because we will only get out of the pandemic together and ignite a global movement to ensure this never happens again. “Commendably, government continues to implement palliatives for the Nigerian citizenry, particularly those on the margins. We encourage able individuals and organisations to continue and expand their philanthropic outreach to the elderly, poor and other vulnerable people in our societies.”