Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Some worshippers, on Tuesday, allegedly attacked officers of the Lagos State COVID-19 Task Force, who were enforcing the lockdown ordered by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). It was gathered that the officers of the task force were attacked by some Muslim faithful observing the Solatul Ishal prayer at the Agege Central (Hausa) Mosque. A statement by the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency on Wednesday said the worshippers, numbering about 300, rushed out of the mosque and started hurling missiles at the task force’s patrol vehicle and physically attacked the officers. The General Manager, LASEPA, Dolapo Fasawe, who condemned the attack, stated that the agency was surprised that the authorities of the mosque, who were visited last week, could defy the directive of the government and also launch an attack on its officials. She said, “The attack on the officers is barbaric and uncalled for. Our people are out to protect the lives of the residents of the state, yet they were attacked for doing their jobs; the state will not hesitate to sanction violators to serve as a deterrent to others. “It was obvious that the gathering did not comply with the executive order. The mosque was filled to capacity. The essence of social distancing is to curtail the spread of the coronavirus. The people are endangering their lives and those of their neighbours. “The government has to protect the lives of the people. The appropriate authorities will take the matter up and such gatherings will not be allowed to continue in the interest of all.” Reacting also to the attack, the Director-General of the Lagos State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, said, “We won’t relent; we will continue to appeal to our people to heed advice; prayers can be said at homes and businesses can be resuscitated, but this deadly virus is dangerous if not well managed and controlled. “If not for us, but our families, friends and neighbours, let us do the needful and observe safety measures at all times regarding where we are.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 