Terver Bendega bendegaterver@gmail.com Four years ago in conversation with my favourite professor, I heard the phrase “Peripheral vision” for the first time. Using a sports metaphor, he explained that in just about any sport, the player looks forward and not at all at what he/she is doing. Ultimately, the more of the court the player can see, the greater his ability to avoid opponents, anticipate the actions of others and create a path for success through the field. At the end of the conversation, I walked away armed with a new phrase to throw around in dinner conversations but also with the realisation that while the average manager understands how to interpret data that is set before them, the question “what don’t we know that might matter?” is almost never asked. This ability to recognise when a part of the picture is missing can be the one thing that stands between long term successful companies and those that fizzle out. As a working definition, peripheral vision is being able to anticipate change by being aware when new threats or opportunities emerge on the edge of the business environment.  Knowing where to look for clues and understanding how to interpret weak signals that might seem irrelevant at first but may be early warning signs of impending change that could threaten a company’s long-term survival. Mattel, makers of Barbie dolls are a good example of a brand that we’re blindsided by changes in their periphery. In 2004, Mattel lost 20 per cent of its global share of the fashion-doll segment to smaller rivals. They had failed to realise that their biggest consumer segment- preteen girls were now more sophisticated than prior generations and were opting for dolls that more closely resembled pop stars and the mature women they saw in the media. By the time Mattel realized this, the damage had been done. Barbie, queen of dolls for almost half a century lost a fifth of her market share – and the business custodians hadn’t seen it coming. Companies often face demographic shifts, threats from new rivals, new technologies, new regulations, and other environmental changes that seem to come out of left field. How can they see these changes sooner and capitalise on them? How can they avoid being blindsided? Perhaps more importantly, how can they develop the courage to act when those signals are still ambiguous?. A good  place to begin is to ask the right questions. At the start of the year, the questions around many boardrooms include “What is our market share?” “What are our sales volumes?” and “What is competition up to?.” While all the above are important, these questions tend to be far too precise. We can take learnings from Johnson & Johnson’s strategy for scanning the periphery by asking much broader questions like “What would the average doctor’s office look like in five years?” “What role will regulation and government policy play?” and “What will our demography look like in that time?” These questions help channel scarce scanning resources to places most likely to reveal hidden opportunities or threats. Next is to take learnings from the past. While the past may not be the most accurate predictor of the future, checking to see if there are any instructive lessons that reveal blind spots within your industry or similar industries can help point to an emerging threat or an opportunity waiting to be exploited. A third step is to examine the here and now. Research shows that we filter and rationaliSe away large amounts of information that reach our senses. In the early 2000’s, Coors lost their market leader status to Anheuser-Busch because they rationalised away the thought that consumers would be interested in a “healthier” beer. Their failure to consider that the growing diet trend could be important in the alcoholic-beverage industry cost them a fortune. Another scanning technique is asking what future surprises could hurt or help your business. It could be as simple as having a much broader view of what your competition could look like in the next few years. Today, telcos are in the electricity business, most forward-thinking businesses spend the largest chunk of their marketing and advertising budgets online and banks are the biggest retailers of airtime. Are there emerging technologies that could render your business obsolete? By focusing only on direct rivals, you may be obscuring threats from your periphery. In industry after industry, from airlines to banks and the taxi industry, the long-run threats have typically come from those companies that offer cheaper rather than more sophisticated products or services. Finally, anticipating the future using scenario planning or other future-mapping techniques. Using the mattress industry as an example, the market is currently defined by corporate companies that emphasise how comfortable their products are. Given the growing difficulty people are facing with falling and staying asleep, technology will be playing a much bigger role as sleep optimisation (factoring in such things as light exposure and temperature) rather than comfort will be the next battlefield for industry rivals. Mobile phone apps, wearable activity trackers, customisable mattresses and even innovative medical therapies are likely to play a major role in how we approach sleep entering into the next decade. Next time you’re in a boardroom, these guiding questions should be an important first step. As Charles Darwin said, “It’s not the strongest of the species who survive, nor the most intelligent, but the ones most responsive to change.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com