Samuel Awoyinfa The United Nations Children’s Fund and the International Labour Organisation have said there is a need to support working families in the wake of the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus. They argued that the vulnerable, especially the children and women needed support in the face school closures, job losses and  non-availability  of childcare facilities among the low-income families. The bodies said on Monday, “As COVID-19 pandemic continues its exponential growth, it is essential to support working families to minimise negative consequences for children. “Job loss, school closures, and unavailability of childcare mean that families, especially those in low-income households, need extra support. UNICEF Chief of Early Childhood Development, Dr Rebello Britt noted that the fallout from the pandemic – job losses, prolonged stress and a deterioration of mental health – would be felt by families for years to come. He said, “For the most vulnerable children, the absence of adequate social protection systems exacerbates their exposure to the crisis.” Also in new preliminary recommendations released  the same day, UNICEF urged employers to consider the impact of their business decisions on workers’ families – and to support social protection wherever possible. The bodies called on governments to strengthen social protection measures, especially for vulnerable families, including supporting employers to continue providing employment and income, and to guarantee financial support for those who  lost their jobs. ILO Director of the Conditions of Work and Equality Department, Manuela Tomei, said, “Social dialogue – consultation and collaboration among governments, workers and employers and their representatives – is essential. If responses are to be effective and sustainable, they have to be built on trust and a wide range of experiences.” The bodies added that family-friendly policies and practices, including employment and income protection, paid leave to care for family members, flexible working arrangements and access to quality, emergency childcare could make a critical difference. They said these enable workers to protect and care for themselves and their children and enhance workers’ productivity and sense of security. They also made preliminary recommendations for employers to mitigate the negative consequences stemming from COVID-19  whichnclude monitoring and following national advice by local and national authorities and communicate critical information to the workforce. They were advised to assess whether current workplace policies provide sufficient support to workers and their families, and they apply good practices when implementing existing or new policies based on social dialogue, national labour laws and international labour standards. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  