Comedian Olowomoyela Oluwatobi Lawrence, aka Peteru, opens up on his love for Cristiano Ronaldo, his greatest sports moment and wish to become a footballer in this interview with EBENEZER BAJELA Which sport will you rate as number one? Football is the best sport in the world, it’s just amazing to behold. Why your choice of football? Football is the best because nothing rivals it in entertainment: the thrills, the unity it brings. It’s a unifying factor, especially in a country like Nigeria where we have lots of ethnic groups. It’s a sport that even when we are not friends, we can become one on the ground of common interest. I still remember the goose bumps on my body severally, the joy of victory, the way people celebrate. I think it has even become a way of life. Did you ever think of becoming a footballer? Yes I did. I nurtured the dream of wanting to be a footballer but along the line, the dream died. I still wish I took it up as a career though. Which was your favourite position? I played in all defensive positions except at left-back, but my preferred position was central defence because it enables me to properly read the game. Who is your favourite sportsperson? It’s the greatest of all time, who in my opinion is Cristiano Ronaldo. And I don’t think there is anyone who can contest that. He proved himself in the most contested league, the English Premier League, before joining Real Madrid in Spain, where he won four Champions League, two La Liga trophies and Spanish Cup. It is not easy to do that. Now, he is doing it again with Juventus in Italy. Which football club do you support? I support Manchester United, the biggest football club in England and I am sure you will agree with me on that too. Do you watch Nigerian league? Not anymore. I used to watch it some years ago. I watched Sharks of Port Harcourt, Rangers, Enyimba do us proud on the continental front but of late, I cannot really remember seeing a game. But I follow it on the news though to see how we are doing on the continent Which Nigerian club do you support? It used to be Enyimba, but I don’t really follow them anymore. Which is your greatest sports moment? I have quite a few but my very best was when David Beckham scored a last minute equalising free-kick against Greece in their 2002 World Cup qualifier in 2001. That goal qualified England for the World Cup. I knew he was going to score and he did. I can never forget that. Which other sports do you follow aside football? I follow tennis like a religion. I am a huge fan of Roger Federer and hoping he wins another Grand Slam this year. Did you disobey your parents as a child to play football? Of course yes. It happened many times and the funny thing is that most times I came home with either a broken toe, twisted ankle or a dislocated shoulder, which I felt was a divine punishment for disobeying my parents. Would you encourage your children to play football? I will encourage them to play football while growing up and if they want to pursue it to the very end, I would give them my full support. Which of the league do you think is better, Premier league or La Liga? For me, no league in the world is better than the Premier League. A lot might argue that no footballer from the Premier League has won the Ballon d’or since 2008 but beyond that, the Premier League gives you the most form of unpredictability and complete entertainment. Shocking results are a constant thing there and that is something you don’t get to see in La Liga or other leagues in Europe. Which athletes would you love to meet? I have a very long list but top of my list in this order are Cristiano Ronaldo, Roger Federer, Serena Williams and Jose Mourinho. I will do anything to get to meet these great people. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  