Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Family of the deceased chairman of the Ejigbo Local Government Area of Osun State, Gbenga Ayegbayo, on Monday, said the late politician was denied treatment at the University Teaching Hospital, Ibadan because he could not produce result of COVID-19 test. Speaking with The PUNCH, the spokesperson for the family, Gbolahan Ayegbayo, told our correspondent that his brother slumped at a meeting on Friday and was rushed to Ladoke Akintola Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso for treatment. Gbolahan said, “He took ill at a meeting. He had been managing partial stroke for some time. When the incident happened, through diagnosis, he was to be operated upon in LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso. “We are not happy with how LAUTECH, Ogbomoso Teaching Hospital managed the situation. How can you keep a patient for three days without running coronavirus test on him? “Sunday evening, LAUTECH referred him to the UCH, Ibadan, with just ordinary referral note knowing full well that UCH had stopped admission of new patients because of coronavirus. “On getting to the UCH around 10pm, he was stopped at the gate of emergency unit. He was not allowed in. We made efforts by contacting people in the hospital but he was not allowed into the hospital because we could not produce result of COVID-19 test. He was on life support. “Because we could not get him admitted at UCH, on advice, we decided to return him to Osun. He died around 1am on Monday while we were about leaving UCH gate,” Gbolahan said. Ayegbayo, said to be in his late 50s, was only few days ago at the Unity High School, Ejigbo, to see the 127 Ivory Coast returnees, who were camped in the school. The member representing Ejigbo State Constituency in Osun State House of Assembly, Israel Oyekunle, confirmed the death in a chat with our correspondent. Oyekunle said the remains of the local government boss had been deposited in the state’s Specialists Hospital, Asubiaro, Osogbo. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com