Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Olawale Fapohunda, on Tuesday, expressed worry over the increasing number of pastors arrested and prosecuted in the state for flouting the state lockdown order, to check the spread of coronavirus. Fapohunda urged Christian leaders in Ekiti State “to support government’s effort in curbing the spread of COVID-19 through religious programmes that do not violate the Ekiti State Coronavirus Disease (Prevention of Infection) Regulations, 2020”. The AG, who spoke in Ado Ekiti during a meeting with the Christian Association of Nigeria, said, “The Ministry of Justice is concerned about the increasing number of pastors that have been arrested over the past few days for violating the prohibition of gathering provision in the COVID-19 regulations. “It is a matter of regret that no fewer than 10 pastors have been arrested and prosecuted for violating the Ekiti State COVID-19 Regulations. We derive no joy in prosecuting representatives of faith-based groups. “This is the time when the state government needs prayers as well as constructive partnership with churches and mosques specifically in the areas of message transmission as well as counselling our people to stay calm and keep faith during this trying period. “We need CAN to match government’s food palliatives with spiritual palliatives within the limits of the regulations,” Fapohunda said. The AG appealed to CAN to do more in communicating with its members on the dangers of large gatherings, saying, “COVID-19 is contagious. One person can infect a whole congregation and endager the lives of large communities.” The CAN Chairman in Ekiti State, Revd. Father Peter Olowolafe, said CAN would intensify efforts to ensure full compliance by churches in Ekiti State. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com