Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government has extended the closure of airports across the country by another two weeks beginning from April 23, 2020. Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, announced this via a tweet on his verified Twitter handle on Monday. He said the extension was due to the recent lockdown order of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Last month, the Federal Government ordered the closure of Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, and other airports nationwide. It declared that the closure of airports was part of measures to contain the spread of the rampaging coronavirus disease. Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Capt. Musa Nuhu, had stated that the shutdown would last till April 23, 2020. But Sirika on Monday announced that the airports would remain closed for two more weeks, although this was subject to review. The minister said, “As a result of the extension of lockdown by Mr. President, it is no longer possible for us to open our airspace and airports for normal operations by the 23rd of April, 2020. “They will remain closed for a further two weeks. This (is) subject to review as appropriate.” Sirika’s tweet, however, generated diverse reactions. While some of his Twitter followers commended the government for the move, others lambasted the minister. Responding to the minister’s tweet, Bello Abdullahi, said, “If you had acted promptly by closing all entry points and quarantined people for 21 days, Nigeria would not have to go on locking down states. “And now look at what you’re talking about. We’re surely in the wrong hands!” Another Twitter user, Savanna Princess, told Sirika to “kindly stop all the VIP shuttles going on. It makes no sense to lock citizens up and allow governors stream in and out of Abuja. “In the first instance, they carried this virus into Nigeria. Now running around isn’t okay!” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.