Tola Dehinde I enjoy meeting people from the sickle cell community who are doing what they can to raise awareness in their own special way.  I met with Gail Sickle Initiative and hope you will enjoy ready about its interventions in the area of sickle cell advocacy. My name is Oluwafemi Ajayi, a twin, a winning warrior, founder and president of Gail Sickle Initiative. Almost everybody knows that people living with sickle cell disorder are referred to as ‘warriors’ instead of ‘sicklers’ which is better. But I decided to refer to us as ‘winning warriors’ because I believe that what one says is what one gets. I always had a passion to support ‘winning warriors’ like myself and my first opportunity came during the one-year mandatory National Youth Service Corps scheme in a multinational. I observed that the company focused much awareness on HIV/AIDS causes but there was none regarding sickle cell. There was a certain day I received an email inviting me to attend another seminar on HIV/AIDS. That was it, enough! I immediately responded to the email and lodged my complaint. I requested a seminar on sickle cell matters and the dangers of ignoring genotype compatibility. About two weeks later, the seminar tagged “sickle cell: A chance not a choice” commenced. Years later, I met a Congolese woman in South Africa and we got talking. She confided in me about her daughter being a winning warrior. The woman was scared that having sickle cell would make her daughter not to experience puberty or menstrual cycle. Her daughter got so sick that I had to visit her in the hospital. As I entered the ward and saw her daughter, I became sad. I held the little winning warrior by the hand and told her she was going to be alright. I told her I had gone through similar experiences and that she was in good hands. It then occurred to me that she was lucky to be in a country where there was better medical care. I thought, what about those who don’t have such opportunities? Right there I decided to establish a non-profit organisation to reduce the high rate of stigmatisation of people living with sickle cell disorder experience and to unite winning warriors in the  Diaspora so that they can assist fellow winning warriors back home in Nigeria. Months later, ‘Gail Sickle Initiative’ was duly registered. After GSI went through the registration process and was formally established on June 13, 2019, I decided to join some sickle cell social media groups to meet fellow winning warriors like myself. I did and I was really impressed at the energy towards awareness. A lot of foundations had emerged and the priority was to create awareness towards sickle cell disorder and also help winning warriors with free medical services. However, I discovered that there were constant scary reminders of sickle cell with focus on deaths and I wondered who was next.  This got me really disturbed. I had also come to the realisation that under sickle cell was two main challenges: the challenges that come with the health and the ones with the stigma. As such GSI decided to carve a niche and focused more on the challenges that come with stigmatisation. GSI held her first audition on September 28, 2019. It was the first of its kind in Nigeria where singers and poets living with sickle cell disorder were chosen to participate in a concert slated for December of that year. On December 21, 2019, after several rehearsals, the initiative organised the first fundraising concert and poetry presentation where winning warriors were given the opportunity to display their God-given talents. The event was created to remove the placard of stigma on people living with sickle cell disorder and also to show winning warriors the profit rather than the pain. The event was attended by winning warriors, care givers and guests from society. Winning warriors rendered inspiring songs titled “warriors are matching on in spite of all” and “though we walk through the valley of sickle cell, we will fear no evil.” Among others, there were poetry titled “How dare you sickle cell”? “A warrior’s tale” and “warrior’s way.” By the end of the programme, the opinion some people had about people living with sickle cell disorder changed and people became emotional to the point of shedding tears.  All donations received from the event went to every winning warrior that participated in poetry, singing and to others who needed assistance from GSI. By October, GSI opened an office where people living with sickle cell disorder are counselled. In November 2019, the initiative created a WhatsApp discussion platform where we have been privileged to host a number of winning warriors from various sphere of influence in life: magistracy, founders of SC foundations, advocates on SCD, doctors, pastors, professors, among others.  The WhatsApp platform discusses health challenges of winning warriors, other impactful topics and we sometimes separate days where we come together to discuss issues relating to our individual lives. One of the topics we discussed on our platform was love and sickle cell and in the spirit of valentine, GSI decided to take the discussion a step further by hosting another event tagged love and sickle cell. The programme was structured so that fellow winning warriors could hand out with each other and clear the air about this controversial issue. Dr. Popoola of Next Haematology Medicare analysed a lot of issues relating to love and sickle cell and by the end of the programme, all participants knew that technology has helped to make communication more accessible and convenient to all, irrespective of one’s geographical location. At present, GSI is about to embark on a series of programmes that will focus strategically on reducing the societal stigma most people living with sickle cell disorder go through. It will be different, unique and impactful. The foundation will be announcing its fundraising concert for this year soon. We urge you to prepare yourselves as we show the world that winning warriors are not misfits or liabilities. We may look pale, fragile and small but we are strong and mighty. If you would like to get in touch with me about SCD or this column, pls do so on:- t.dehinde@yahoo.co.uk and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    