Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, on Tuesday, directed the Chairman of the Ivo Local Government Area, Mr Ogbonnaya Ude, and the leadership of the Miyeti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria in the state to ensure the immediate release of the two Chinese men kidnapped in the council area by gunmen on Monday. Umahi gave the directive in Abakaliki in a state-wide broadcast on the measures taken to stop the spread of the coronavirus in the state. “On Monday, I received a security report that the two Chinese were kidnapped following the withdrawal of their security personnel for the purpose of assisting in the boundary closure,” the governor stated. Umahi, who expressed regret, over the incident, gave an assurance that security agencies were working round the clock to ensure the release of the expatriates and urged the residents to remain calm even in the midst of the crisis. He noted with dismay the alleged compromise by some security personnel at the state’s boundaries by aiding people to come into the state. He warned that the state government would not hesitate to hold them responsible if anything went wrong with the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The governor added, “We have reports that security personnel posted to the boundaries were compromising and assisting people, who want to come into the state, to have their way despite our warnings. I will not hesitate to hold them responsible should anything go wrong. “Any policeman or soldier, who is not on essential duty and wants to come into the state, will be arrested. The directive does not exempt anyone. Anyone one, who is not on essential duty and comes into the state, will be arrested and prosecuted.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  