With the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic ravaging societies all over the world, it becomes more and more important to curb the spread of the disease. On the 15th of April 2020, in an effort to support public health initiatives of the Rivers State Government against the spread of COVID-19, Genesis Group Nigeria donated the sum of NGN5,000,000.00 (Five Million Naira) to the Rivers State Government through its Ministry of Health. While presenting the contribution to the State, Dr. Nnaeto Orazulike (Group Managing Director, Genesis Group Nigeria) appreciated the Rivers State Government for its tremendous efforts in curtailing the spread of the disease. Dr. Nnaeto assured Rivers State of Genesis’s continuous support and emphasized the necessity of raising awareness to the masses about the disease and basic preventative measures to remain safe and healthy. The Honorable Commissioner for Health, Professor Princewill Chike, thanked Genesis Group Nigeria for its contribution to Rivers State during these trying times as well as its great service to Rivers State over the years.  Professor Chike also emphasized the need for the people of Rivers State to follow the basic steps in fighting COVID-19 such as social distancing, staying at home, maintaining good hygiene and avoiding large gatherings. Professor Chike assured the people of Rivers State that the Rivers State Government through its Ministry of Health and other stakeholders would continuously work to make Rivers State safe. In attendance for the Rivers State Government were several officials including Professor Princewill Chike (Honorable Commissioner, Ministry of Health), Dr. Uche (Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health) and Dr. Ekanem (Director, Rivers State Centre for Disease Control). In attendance for Genesis Group Nigeria were Dr. Nnaeto Orazulike (Group Managing Director), Chikenye Orazulike (Executive Director, Finance), Folasade Omole (Executive Director, Operations) and Daniel Uwojeya (Executive Director, Compliance).  Genesis Group Nigeria is an indigenous company with business interests in hospitality, entertainment, food production, real estate, and oil and gas support services. For over 29 years, Genesis Group Nigeria has provided exceptional products and services to multinationals, indigenous corporations and the Nigerian public.