Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Federal Government has said foreigners holding valid visitor’s pass or resident permit with confirmed return tickets scheduled to travel out are to be issued the relevant government extensions at no cost. This, it said, was to enable the beneficiaries to reschedule their flights and travel within one week whenever the restriction on travel was suspended. Scores of foreigners had been stranded in the country following the closure of the international airports and the land borders by the FG on account of the coronavirus pandemic. As a result of this, many foreign embassies in the country, including the United States Mission, British High Commission, and others, had sought government permission to airlift their nationals through special evacuation flights. But the Nigeria Immigration Service explained in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, that the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, had approved the order in respect of the aliens affected by the embargo on international travels vide a letter with reference number MI/PM/16012/S.266/V.II, dated April 6. The statement signed by the NIS spokesman, DCI Sunday James, stated, “In the light of the above, all visitors and migrants holding valid visitor’s pass or resident permit with confirmed return tickets scheduled to travel out within the period of the international travel restriction, are to be issued with relevant extensions at no cost to enable the beneficiaries to reschedule their flights and travel within one week whenever the embargo is suspended by the Federal Government. “However, anyone that overstays beyond the waiver period whenever the restriction is lifted by the Federal Government is to promptly comply by paying for overstay,” it added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 