Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa A heavy rainstorm, on Monday, brought down the mast of the Bayelsa State Broadcasting Corporation, operators of the Radio Bayelsa, in Yenagoa. The mast also hosted the transmitters of the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria’s Creek FM and the Nigerian Television Authority. Some other buildings in Yenagoa and other parts of the state were not spared by the natural disaster, but no life was lost to the incident. The rainstorm, which started around 9.45pm, was characterised by strong wind that lasted about 30 minutes. The rainstorm left in its wake damaged  buildings, electrical poles and wires and billboards, and some residents of Yenagoa and other towns counting their losses. Besides the mast, the rainstorm also destroyed several buildings at the Radio Bayelsa station, including the general manager’s office, the makeshift live studios and the administrative building. The acting General Manager of Radio Bayelsa, Mrs Pere Hobobo, described the incident as “a monumental loss.” Also affected were the transmitters of the NTA Yenagoa and the FRCN’s Creek FM as explained by its general manager, Mr Sunday Udosen. The Chief of Staff, Government House, Yenagoa, Chief Benson Agadaga, who was one of the earliest visitors to the Radio Bayelsa station, gave an assurance that the government would work towards fixing the damage to the station. The Radio Bayelsa had on February 14, 2020, suffered large-scale destruction from irate youths protesting the Supreme Court’s judgment, which sacked the then governor-elect, David Lyon, of the All Progressives Congress. In July 2019, a mysterious fire destroyed the equipment and parts of the Radio Bayelsa, forcing the station to operate its live studios from a makeshift structure. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  