Olaide Oyelude, Katsina The private clinic of the medical doctor who died from COVID-19 in Daura, Katsina State, Dr Aliyu Yakubu, has been sealed. Two pick-up vans belonging to the police and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence  Corps were seen parked in front of the hospital, Daura Clinics and Medical Centre, along Daura-Zango Road on Wednesday. The police and the NSCDC men did not allow people to enter the premises. They also declined comments. It was learnt that the authorities of the Nigerian Air Force Referral hospital, Daura, initially cordoned off the clinic premises immediately it was confirmed that the medical practitioner was tested positive for COVID-19. A source said,” We had to cordon off that clinic to prevent people from either going out or entering the place to check the spread of the disease. “All workers and patients in the clinic have been quarantined while we have taken their blood samples for test.” There were, however, fears in Daura that the late medical practitioner might have had contacts with several people before he died on Friday. It was also learnt that after his death, the NAF referral hospital put his corpse in a body bag when his relatives came to collect it for burial. A medical practitioner said some family members opened the bag and washed the body before the corpse was buried on Saturday. Meanwhile, Governor Aminu Masari on Wednesday revealed that 35 persons who came in contact with the late Yakubu had been quarantined. He said this while briefing newsmen on update on the efforts to prevent further spread of the disease in the state. He said samples of the 35 people had been taken to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, adding that the results were being awaited. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 