Abiodun Nejo, John Charles and Ted Odogwu Former governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayodele Fayose, Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, his Deputy, Benson Abounu, as well as the Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje; and his wife, Hafsat, have joined the list of public figures who have tested negative for coronavirus. Fayose was quoted in a statement by his media aide, Lere Olayinka, on Thursday, as saying, “I took a COVID-19 test yesterday because of my perceived exposure in the last two weeks, I just got the result, which is negative.” Also, Ortom and Abounu tested negative for the virus. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr Terver Akase,  said this in a statement made available to journalists in  Makurdi, on Thursday. Akase quoted his principal as saying he chose to go for voluntary testing because “it is the right thing to do by everyon; not only when they notice symptoms of the disease.” The statement also said the governor equally encouraged residents and citizens of the state who may be experiencing symptoms of the disease to  present themselves for the test. He explained that Abounu needed the test because he attended the National Economic Council meeting as well as the governor’s forum meeting held  in Abuja. Some of the governors who were at the meeting tested positive for coronavirus . In Kano State, Ganduje and his wife, Hafsat, have also both tested negative for the coronavirus. This was contained in a press statement issued in Kano by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Abba Anwar, on Thursday. The governor urged members of the general public to regularly abide by the directive on hand washing and the use of hand sanitisers, keeping their environments clean as well as respect the rule of social distancing to curb the spread of the disease. Similarly, the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, urged Kano residents to continue to observe the necessary preventive measures and obey all instructions by health personnel, to prevent being infected by COVID-19. While addressing his subjects on Thursday, the royal father expressed concern over the rising cases of COVID-19 in the country. He said he had directed the Emirate Council, all district and village heads, including religious leaders, to continue to closely monitor their subjects and report any suspicious symptoms to the appropriate health authorities for prompt action. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 