Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Waste managers and street sweepers in Lagos have been given personal protective materials to protect them from the coronavirus pandemic as they go about their duties. The Lagos Waste Management Authority said it would also protect them from other infections in the course of their duties. Items distributed are hand sanitizers, liquid soap, safety goggle, rubber work gloves, and re-useable face masks, among others. The Managing Director of LAWMA, Dr Muyiwa Gbadegesin, said the move was in compliance with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s directive that all necessary steps should be taken to arrest the further spread of coronavirus. He said that the over 4,000 PSP employees and 15,000 street sweepers must be adequately protected because of the hazardous nature of their public sanitation service which could expose them to infection by the coronavirus. She said, “We are kitting our sweepers and PSP operators as we have always done, in line with the directive of the incident commander, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who has repeatedly stressed that all precautionary measures must be taken, to curb the spread of coronavirus. “We have more than 15,000 sweepers and 4,000 waste handlers working with private PSP operators, and they all must be adequately and properly protected from infection. Our move is also in line with the instructions of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control that all preventive measures must be taken.” According to Gbadegesin, the PPE kits will protect their mouth, nose and eyes from possible infection from the waste they handle. He said the sweepers and the PSP operators must keep working throughout the stay-at-home period since they were essential workers and the city must be kept clean during the pandemic. He added that additional measures that would be taken included sanitization and disinfection of LAWMA operational depots, dumps, transfer loading stations and waste bin locations across the state. The President, Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria, Mr David Oriyomi, said the protective items would be put to good use and urged other states to emulate the Lagos example. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 