Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Amnesty International has called on the Federal Government to take immediate actions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in correctional and detention centres. The human rights group said inmates and detainees at police and military facilities across the country were at risk of contracting the coronavirus disease “as they are held in overcrowded and unhygienic conditions that can be even more deadly in the hot weather.” The Nigeria Correctional Service had informed The PUNCH on Wednesday that necessary measures had been taken to protect inmates, including suspension of visits, restriction of contact between officials and inmates and non-admission of new inmates. The service also explained that it had isolation centres where sick inmates are kept for observation. But AI, in a statement in Abuja on Thursday, stated, “Kaduna Correctional Centre which has capacity for only 473 inmates, now has 1,480 prisoners while Enugu Maximum Correctional Centre with capacity for 638, now has 2,077 prisoners. “The Port Harcourt Maximum Correctional Centre has capacity for only 804 but currently has 4,576 locked up. Kirikiri Correctional Centre in Lagos has capacity for only 500 prisoners but now accommodates 1,601 prisoners.” It noted that the Tuesday unrest at the Kaduna Correctional Centre was as a result of the reported death of a prisoner, which triggered panic among other inmates about the spread of COVID-19. “Congestion in Nigerian prisons is staggering and a threat to the lives of prisoners, especially at this time that requires social distancing to prevent the rapid spread of the disease,” Director of Amnesty International Nigeria, Osai Ojigho, noted. She added, “Even in the midst of a global health crisis, the Nigerian authorities must protect people’s rights and ensure that all Nigerians have access to healthcare, food, water and all other basic needs.” Ojigho asked the authorities to urgently adopt a strategy for the protection of the rights of people deprived of their liberty, including addressing overcrowding in prisons by releasing unconditionally, ‘prisoners of conscience,’ older people and those with underlying medical conditions. She also enjoined the government to give clear instructions to security agencies not to abuse their powers while enforcing the lockdown order in the Federal Capital Territory, Lagos and Ogun states. “While acknowledging the size of the challenge and efforts made by authorities to fight COVID-19 across Nigeria, we are also concerned about reports and videos circulating on social media showing violations of human rights, that include beatings by law enforcement agencies tasked with ensuring compliance with the lockdown,” AI stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 