Ebenezer Bajela Former Super Eagles striker, Odion Ighalo, has reportedly been told that he would have to accept a staggering £200,000-a-week wage cut if he wants to seal a permanent move to Manchester United. Ighalo joined United in a shock loan move from Chinese Super League outfit Shanghai Shenhua in January. The Nigerian striker has made an impressive start to life at Old Trafford with four goals in eight games, before the season was suspended until due to the coronavirus crisis. The former Watford striker has never hidden his love for his boyhood club and has hinted that he would be interested in staying at the club beyond the end of the season despite reports of new offers from his parent club but wanted to focus on the current season. He said, “I’m on loan until the end of the season, which has not expired. Now it’s for us to finish the season very well, and if I do well, score more goals, if possible, then after the season we’ll see what’s on the table. “But, for now, the season is still on. Even for me, as a person, you can’t start talking about the contract when you don’t know when the season is going to resume. So there’s no need to talk about that, it’s just finish the season and then see how it goes. “Of course, I’m enjoying my time there, so if something comes up, why not? According to the Daily Star, United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is willing to offer the 30-year-old a permanent deal ahead of the start of next season but has been told by the club’s management that they would not match the current £300,000-a-week wages Ighalo currently earns in China – and have warned him their offer will be no more than £100,000-a-week. Ighalo’s current loan deal is due to expire on May 31 and United will look to extend it, with the current campaign expected to run until June and July due to the pandemic. It remains to be seen if Ighalo, 30, will be willing to take such a huge financial hit. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  