Peter Dada, Akure Residents of Arimogija community in the Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State have begun to flee the community following the fear of attacks by suspected herdsmen. The residents lamented that some Fulani herdsmen killed three persons on their farms during the week, adding that nothing was done to check the criminal activities of the bandits. They also alleged that a helicopter came into the forest of the community and dropped some ammunition for the herdsmen. They said the matter was reported to the police but no action was taken on the matter. A resident of the town, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told City Round that residents of the community had been living in fear, saying some of the residents had begun to relocate following the Fulani herdsmen’s attacks. The resident said, “The Fulani herdsmen have killed three people in the community in one week. They killed a rice farmer, Jacob Odushe and his son, Adura this week. They killed another boy, Victor Ejeh. The boy’s corpse was found in the bush after a week after he was declared missing. The cuts on his body showed that he was killed by the bandits. “We appeal to the state government to come to our aid. We need serious presence of security agencies in our community. We don’t want to take the law into our hands.” Special Adviser to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on Security Matters, Alhaji Jimoh Dojumo, confirmed the killings in the community to City Round, adding that the governor had sent some security agents to maintain law and order. He said, “I have been there. The people were so bitter about the man and his son that were killed. As they saw us, they started protesting but I was able to calm them. “They said they were apprehensive of a particular helicopter that allegedly came to the bush. They were suspecting that the helicopter brought some Fulani to the place to attack them. But Mr Governor has sent some soldiers to patrol the community.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Tee-Leo Ikoro, was unable to comment on the matter as he said he was at a meeting when a call was put across to his mobile. He had yet to respond to a text message sent to him. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 