Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The residents of Igede Ekiti in the Irepodun Ifelodun Local Government Area of Ekiti State are worried by the killing of an employee of the council, Mrs Tayo Ajayi, in her house by unknown persons. The incident reportedly caught the community unawares. Ajayi, who was until her death, a health assistant at a primary health centre of the council, was attacked with machetes on Friday at the Ujumu compound, Odo Igede Quarter, Igede Ekiti. Her eldest child, Toyin, who suspected that the deceased might have been trailed to her house, said the woman was attacked and killed in her room around midnight. “I received a call regarding the death of my mother and on getting there, I met her in a pool of her own blood inside her room with bruises on her head and cuts all over her body, indicating that she was dealt machete blows,” Toyin stated. The incident compelled a high chief in the town, Emmanuel Adetona, to hurriedly summon a meeting of stakeholders to strategise on how to fish out the killers. He appealed to the police to commence investigation into the incident in earnest. “How can someone be murdered like this without anyone noticing, including the neighbours? Youths of the community and the security agents must rise to the occasion and fish out the killers,” Adetona said. The traditional ruler of the community, the Onigede of Igede, Oba James Aladesuru, who frowned on the incident, called for concerted efforts to nab the killers and tame the rising wave of criminality in the town. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Sunday Abutu, who confirmed the incident, said the deceased was killed inside her room. Abutu, who said investigation into the matter had begun, stated, “There has not been any arrest so far; investigation is still ongoing. But soon, the command should be able to come up with a preliminary report. “Though it is evident that it is a case of murder, we have not been able to ascertain whether it was assassination or robbery. Our investigation will be thorough to be able to establish the real cause of the death.” It was gathered that the corpse had been deposited in the morgue of the General Hospital, Igede Ekiti, for post-mortem. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 