Rasheed Bisiriyu The Road Transport Employers Association, Lagos State Chapter, has directed its members to comply with the state government’s directives on public transport to contain the spread of COVID-19. Its Chairman, Alhaji Mohammed Musa, said the union would ensure strict compliance by all members across the state. Musa, who noted in a statement that the directives were for the safety of the society, said that the union would support the government in anything that would stop the spread of the virus through the motor parks. “We have given directives to all state, zonal and unit chapters of the union to take preventive measures to contain the spread. We have also directed members to step up their personal and vehicle hygiene, increase sensitisation and provide sanitisers across motor parks,” he added. The state government, through its Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, had issued public transport guidelines to operators and passengers to avoid the spread of the deadly virus in buses, cabs, motor parks and garages. Oladeinde said that it had become compulsory for all transport operators/companies to sanitise their parks and garages regularly, at least before and after each trip. He said all transport operators/companies were expected to have at the entrance of their respective parks/garages, washing hand materials including soap and running water. All operators are also expected to have alcohol-based sanitisers in their vehicles for the use of drivers, conductors and passengers, while overcrowding/overloading of vehicles is disallowed. Among other things, the commissioner had said that passenger spacing must be fully observed and that all commercial buses should be at 60 per cent capacity and not 100 per cent capacity. Oladeinde said that all drivers and conductors should always wear hand gloves and nose guides while in transit and all passengers would be required to sanitise themselves before and after each trip. The RTEAN leader said that the union was part of the meeting where the directives were concluded to stem the tide of the pandemic in the state, adding that they would ensure strict adherence to save lives. Musa said, “We are a law-abiding association and will not do anything contrary to the policy of government. All of us are aware of the coronavirus and the efforts being taken by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on this. So, we are ready to cooperate with the government on anything that can put a stop to the spread of the virus. “Our organisation is in support and will partner the government to stop the spread through the public transport. We have directed state executive of the union across parks to ensure we have sanitisers and hand-washing facilities across the parks. We will not do less because it is for our own good.” The union leader urged zonal and unit chairmen of the union to ensure spacing of passengers sitting. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  