President of the Nigerian Association of Petroleum Explorationists, Mr Alex Tarka, speaks with ’FEMI ASU on the impact of the oil price plunge on exploration activities in Nigeria, among other industry issues Oil price crashed from as high as $70 per barrel in January to $22 per barrel last week. How is this impacting exploration activities in the Nigerian oil and gas industry? We have seen the impact and responses are being made appropriately. Currently, as we speak, the rig rates are being renegotiated, which is a standard in the industry. The rates at which the rigs were engaged depended on the price of crude oil in the international market as at the time of signing the contracts. So, usually the rig owners understand the deal; when you have shocks of this nature, they also respond because it is not economical to start to demobilise the rigs. Usually, it is easy to renegotiate the rig rates downwards, especially for rigs that have contracts that are already running. In spite of the higher rates at which the contracts were signed, there is usually room for discounts to sustain the business and for both parties to be happy. For rigs that are already working, it makes it easy even if a contract is already signed because there is a relationship. Besides the rig rates, there is also a need to defer some of the exploration projects, based on management decision. As explorationists, usually at a time like this, it will be the best time to negotiate the rig rates downwards, hold on to such and then aggressively see how many exploration wells one can drill before the rates will go up again, based on the increase in crude prices. The reason being that exploration wells are expensive; so when the rig rates are low, it is the best time to drill such wells so that by the time the crude prices go up, you get into development and then you make some money. That is an aggressive way of looking at exploration because there is room to drill, suspend and open up with time. There is nothing lost as we speak, in spite of the rates as long as the rig rates can be reduced a little based on the reality in the international market. You said this is the best time to do exploration. But why are companies announcing the suspension of drilling campaigns? Are they not thinking about the advantage they have since it is cheaper now to get the rigs? That will also depend on the companies. A lot of companies just have to accept the decisions of their home offices, just like the international oil companies we have around; the reason being that such companies want to make their money immediately, looking at the huge investment. However, for a national oil company, this will be the best time to do some of such because your level of patriotism will also guide what you do, knowing full well that exploration needs to be sustained instead of just producing and depleting the reserves. There has to be a way to match production with reserves addition. It is very painful to focus on production and neglect reserves addition because reserves are actually strength. The volumes in the reserves give you a voice when you are talking at the international level, and it is easier to even control what you produce when you are comfortable with the reserves. When you hear of the price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia, it is because of the comfort level they have with their reserves status. You will notice that they are holding on to huge reserves base, so they can play around with their production figures. They can decide when to cut and when to just open up. But for a nation like ours that is still down there, we need to continue to do whatever needs to be done professionally to keep adding to the reserves as long as the production is ongoing. This is because there is a level below which we may not want to go. The volumes in our reserves give us more strength, even when we discuss at the level of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries; that also guides the volumes you will be allocated when there is a need to cut down. At a time like this, it appears exploration spending is usually the first to be affected, with a number of oil majors cutting their capital budgets. Seplat Petroleum Development Company said recently that it had reduced its drilling plans. How are your members coping at this time? Yes, it is a trying period for our members. Some will likely be laid off at this period; some will have some pay cut. But like I usually say, issues of this nature don’t last for too long. We respond sharply because a lot of costs that go into this upstream operation are mainly borrowed funds, and those borrowing usually were taking at certain interest rates based on crude prices at that time. The Central Bank of Nigeria is helping out. Our members are feeling the impact because quite a reasonable number of them depend on these drilling operations to sustain their businesses. When you take out exploration, a reasonable number of our members will be impacted. Drilling operations will resume when things pick up because banks are also going to renegotiate facility to give our members some comfort. It is quite tough for our members, especially with the global lockdown now. Some companies pay mainly when people are on duty, but this is a peculiar case. Salary cut may not be realistic at this period because nobody expected this. Nigeria had set a target of 40 billion barrels of reserves for the year 2020 but it is not close to achieving this. What are the factors that hampered the achievement of this target? What thwarted this from being achieved was partly the lack of incentives for exploration drilling. Exploration drilling is full of risks and it is expensive. In most cases, companies want from the government something to be done to give them some level of comfort. The issues around the Petroleum Industry Bill are enough to have impacted some because things didn’t go the way the IOCs had expected. It is normal for them to react. And if there was a genuine effort to achieve the 40 billion barrels, there would have been also a need to reintroduce things like reserve-addition bonus. The 40 billion barrels target is still achievable. The recent discovery of hydrocarbons in Kolmani River II is a demonstration that with sustained operations within the upstream arm of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, aggressive exploration will still add significantly to what will make up the 40 billion barrels because we are currently at 37 billion barrels. Prior to the oil price collapse, there had been concerns about the relevance of crude oil as the adoption of electric cars was gaining momentum. Some have argued that Nigeria needed to take a cue from what many other countries were doing. What is your view on this? This topic was extensively discussed at the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit in Abuja in February. My answer is that the importance of hydrocarbon in the economies of nations is so much that whatever the discussion on renewable energy is globally, it will still take some time for hydrocarbon to lose its value. The reason being that there is an astronomical increase in global population. As long as the global population continues to grow, there will be a need and continuous demand for energy to sustain the growth in population. And the projections are high in terms of population growth, and if you match that with the energy demand, the renewable energy will not be able to meet that in the next two or three decades. A lot of petrochemical products come from hydrocarbon. So, at what period will renewable energy replace the petrochemical products that are used to make your television set, the aeroplanes, and the components of the electric cars? What I will say as an explorationist and the president of NAPE is that we are in a business that will take years for us to become irrelevant because petrochemical products alone are needed globally. We are not against renewable energy; we will continue to be part of the discussion, but we want to also educate our members that hydrocarbon will not be irrelevant in the immediate future. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 