Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Monday urged the National Assembly to scrutinise the N500bn proposal by the Federal Government as part of its interventions to fight the coronavirus pandemic. The party urged the legislature to ensure that necessary clauses that would guarantee judicious application of the funds and all other social intervention funds are in place to ensure it gets deserving Nigerians. National Publicity Secretary, of the PDP, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, said this in a statement, in Abuja. He also alleged that the leaders of the All Progressive Congress were falling over themselves to force the assembly to grant an anticipatory approval for the N500bn. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, had presented an executive proposal to establish a “N500bn COVID-19 Crisis Intervention Fund” during a meeting with the leadership of the National Assembly on Saturday. Ologbondiyan said, “The PDP, standing with millions of Nigerians, restates its call on the National Assembly to properly scrutinise the N500bn request, ensure clauses that guarantee that the N500bn and all other social intervention funds get to ordinary Nigerians. “The manifest failure of the much-orchestrated COVID-19 social palliatives to reach Nigerians, contrary to claims by the APC-led administration, also validates allegations that the APC has been using ‘ghost’ beneficiaries to siphon government resources.” Ologbondiyan further said, “The PDP invites Nigerians to note how officials of the APC-led administration fraudulently sidestepped extant financial regulations and illegally resorted to cash disbursements, directly by a cabinet minister, instead of using the Central Bank of Nigeria cash disbursement facility.” The PDP spokesman also faulted the alleged less than transparent manner in which the APC-led administration was handling of the funds meant for palliatives. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com