Friday Olokor, Abuja The crisis in Taraba State deepened on Monday, with the kinsmen of Governor Darius Ishaku, demanding a withdrawal of all the political appointments earlier given to the Tiv. Ishaku’s kinsmen also gave him a one-week ultimatum within which to visit his people who, they claimed, had been under attack by Tiv militia or be prepared to answer to them. The Taraba indigenes under the aegis of Jukun Development Association of Nigeria, said this in a communique signed by the National President of JDAN, Chief Benjamin Bako and General Secretary, Bulus Abe after its emergency meeting, in Abuja. The communique read in part, “No member of the JDAN executive hates our governor, nor is any working to bring him down. We all worked for his second term re-election in 2019, because he belongs to all of us. “We demand the governor pay the Southern Taraba an on-the-spot assessment tour. It is on record that the Southern Taraba Council Areas polled majority of the votes that returned you for this second term in 2019. Unfortunately, since the commencement of this current round of the Tiv/Jukun crisis over a year ago, ravaging Wukari, Takum, Donga and Ibi, you never considered it important to pay these people any visit. “Our paramount ruler, the Aku-uka of Wukari, is regularly being harassed by booming sounds of gunshots at his outskirts. We do not think there is any king of his class in this country that is being subjected to the tortuous experience he is passing through. “So many of our villages to the west of Wukari town including; Akwana, Fyayi, Ando-Ikwe, Ando-Katswe, Ando-yaku, Warawa and many others today exist only in names with their inhabitants languishing in IDPs camps in Wukari and few other villages. “For the reason above, we are hereby calling on the governor with a loud voice to withdraw all political appointments given to people of Tiv extractions.” They also passed a vote of no confidence in the governor for failing to develop his area since assumption of office. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com