Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe A father of four, identified simply as Akin, has been killed by generator fumes in the Ijora-Badia area of Lagos State, while allegedly having sex with his pregnant lover. It was gathered that Akin, who had defied the lockdown directive of the government, was found dead in his friend’s containerised shop, where he allegedly engaged in a sex romp with his lover. Akin’s lover was said to be battling for her life before she was rushed to hospital. Our correspondent learnt that Akin, who brought his generator along with him, had come into the containerised shop with his lover after his friend had closed for the day last Thursday. PUNCH Metro learnt that the following morning when the owner of the shop wanted to resume for the day’s activities, he discovered that the door had been bolted from the back. The Coordinator of the Oodua People’s Congress in the area, who identified himself simply as Mr Orebintin, said efforts to open the containerised shop proved abortive as neighbours had to remove the cardboard attached to the roof before they could gain access. He stated, “We are still in shock as to how it happened, because this was not the first time the lovers had been sleeping in the containerised shop. The incident was discovered when the sales boy, who uses the container as a sale centre, resumed for work and found out that the container was locked from within and a generator was working outside. “The sales boy drew our attention to it when he wanted to open the container. We assisted him by forcing the cardboard attached to the roof of the container open and to our surprise, the man (Akin) was found dead, while the lady was almost dead.” A resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that Akin’s lover was impregnated by her late husband. “The man (Akin) used to sell orange at the Orile-Iganmu Market and he was a good friend to everybody; but when the man’s wife heard about the incident, she started cursing him and alleged that he abandoned her and their children without money for feeding for the past three weeks,” she said. READ ALSO: Market shut as traders boo gov PUNCH Metro learnt that policemen from the Orile Police Station evacuated Akin’s corpse and later released it to his family for burial, while the pregnant lover was rushed to a private hospital, where she is recuperating The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident, stated that it could not be ascertained if the lovers were having sex when the man died. “The two of them were found inside the containerised shop but the man was wearing his pair of boxers, while the woman was also wearing her dress, so we could not establish that they were having sex when the man died. They were both found unconscious, but the man later died, while the woman survived,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  