Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The troops of Operation Lafiya Dole, being coordinated by the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, have shot dead seven Boko Haram terrorists along Gwoza-Pulka Road in the Pulka area of Borno State. They rescued 10 persons abducted by the terrorists. According to the military, the operation was carried out by the troops of 26 Brigade Garrison of the land component of Operation Lafiya Dole based on intelligence. The Defence Media Operations, Abuja, said on Friday that the 26 Task Force Brigade in conjunction with local hunters got on the trail of the terrorists and neutralised them, before they could carry out their plan to attack the residents of the area. The DMO coordinator, Maj. Gen. John Enenche, said, “Troops of Special Response Area in Pulka as well as the 26 Task Force Brigade and men of Civilian Joint Task Force and hunters neutralised one Boko Haram terrorist and later, six terrorists, during the operation. “Ten persons were rescued by the troops. Additionally, two dane guns, one terrorist flag and other items were recovered from the camp. “Meanwhile in Rivers State, troops of 16 Brigade Garrison destroyed seven reservoirs used for the storage of stolen crude oil as well as six Cotonou boats laden with illegal refined crude oil at Kilometre 45 in the Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State.” He added, “Following intelligence reports on some trucks reported to be loading petrol from a vandalised Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation pipeline, troops of Operation Awatse moved to the Wawa area of Ogun State to effect arrests. “On sighting the troops, the pipeline vandals and truck drivers fled, abandoning hoses, tools for insertion into the vandalised pipeline, as well as eight trucks of 33,000 litres capacity each and a Toyota Saloon car. “The abandoned items and vehicles were recovered by the troops. The general public is hereby assured of the commitment of the Armed Forces to protect the economic assets of Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  