Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, said on Monday that the state government had approved N2bn to buy off agricultural products in the state. He said the gesture was part of the palliatives to cushion the ‘sit-at-home’ order and the closure of  the boundaries in the state. The governor also insisted that the Federal Government was politicising the fight against COVID-19. He decried the release of N10bn to Lagos State without considering Rivers State, which he described as the hub of the oil production in the country. Wike stated this while speaking with newsmen at the Government House in Port Harcourt. He said a 33-member committee had been set up to liaise with farmers and fishermen in the state with a view to ensuring an effective purchase and distribution of food items to the less privileged in the state. The governor explained that with the funds, farmers and fishermen in the state would make profits while the less privileged would not go hungry during the ‘sit-at-home’ period aimed at checking the spread of COVID-19. Wike pointed out that the funds would be taken from contingency funds as stipulated in the state 2020 budget. He said, “Our goal is to ensure that no agricultural products like yam, garri, plantain, palm oil and fish leave our state during this period. “While the farmers and fishermen will make their profit, the less privileged will have enough food supply for their families.” He claimed that the Federal Government was politicising the campaign against COVID-19. The governor explained that it was wrong for the  central government to single out only Lagos for assistance on the fight against the current scourge in society. He said, “The FG is playing politics with this COVID-19. No one state is more important than the other. Lagos has been recording cases of coronavirus. But we are not saying don’t assist Lagos State. “The N10bn has even been released and for the first time, there was no bureaucracy. What about the state that is the oil hub in the country?” Wike, however, said, “Before the end of the week, the (CODVIC-19 ) index case in the state will be discharged because the first test showed negative, and we had to take her sample back for another test, believing that by the grace of God, it will also come out negative.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com