Anna Okon Nigeria’s terminal operator, APM Terminals Apapa and the West Africa Container Terminal,  Onne, say they have jointly committed more than N300m to the battle against the spread of the coronavirus  in the country. APM Terminals Apapa  says it  has contributed  N150m into the Federal Government’s COVID-19 Relief Fund Account created by the Central Bank of Nigeria,  while WACT has contributed N50m into the same account. It said in addition to these, APMT has donated 1,000 units of face masks; 500 disposable protective coveralls; 400 litres of hand sanitizers; protective goggles and hand gloves to the Lagos Port Complex of the Nigerian Ports Authority  towards curtailing the pandemic. The donation into the COVID-19 Relief Fund Account and the donation of safety items are coming barely two weeks after the company donated  N75m  into the United Nations in Nigeria Basket Fund for the fight against COVID-19, according to a statement from the concessionaire. It said it had equally committed N25m to community awareness campaigns  through radio, social media as well as fliers to sensitise the Apapa community on how to curb the spread of the pandemic. The Managing Director of APMT, Mr Martin Jacob, said this was one battle that Nigerians must join hands together to fight, and with the strong leadership being provided by the Federal Government, Nigeria would overcome these difficult times. Jacob said the items donated by the company were aimed at preventing the spread of the virus at the port, since “there is currently no vaccine to prevent it.” He added, “The only option available to us all at this trying time is prevention. The responsibility lies on all of us to protect ourselves and render all possible assistance within available resources. “The basic precautionary measures to take such as not touching our eyes, nose, or mouth; regular washing of hands with soap and water or alcohol-based sanitizer; maintaining social distance and avoiding large gatherings must be respected by all at the port where we provide essential services.” The General Manager, External Relations of APMT Apapa, Mr Daniel Odibe, who handed over the face masks and other items to the Port Manager, Lagos Port Complex Apapa, Mrs Funmilayo Olotu, said all hands must be on deck to curtail the spread of the deadly virus. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 