Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa Some oil-rich communities in Bayelsa State, under the auspices of KEFFES, have claimed that the recent incident of dead fishes noticed on their shoreline was caused by the leakage from the KS Endeavor gas rig operated by the Chevron Nigeria Limited which went up in flames in January 2012 following an explosion. The KEFFES communities – Koluama I &II, Ekeni, Fish Town, Foropa, Ezetu I & II and Sangana – are in the Southern Ijaw and Brass local government areas on the fringes of the Atlantic Ocean. According to the communities, the toxic pollution escalated in March 2020 and had yet to abate since they started sighting sea creatures dead on the shoreline. A former Community Development Committee chairman from the area, Mr George Ebobra, insisted in Yenagoa on Tuesday that the communities had traced the source of the pollution to the Chevron’s facility. The community leader said, “The explosion of 2012 left us with incalculable damages that the communities have not recovered from. Eight years down the line, our fishermen see bubbles near that rig, showing that there are discharges going on. “And this is a sad reminder how Chevron swept the 2012 incident under the carpet, and later claimed that the incident did not affect neigbouring settlements. “A scrutiny of the oilfields by relevant stakeholders will vindicate the position of the communities, so we appeal to the oil and gas industry regulators to rise to the occasion and investigate the ongoing babbling.” But the CNL General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, Mr Esimaje Brikinn, denied any pollution from the oil firm’s oilfields in the area. “CNL and Star Deep confirm that there has not been any chemical release from any of our facilities,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     