’Femi Asu Ikeja Electric Plc, one of the nation’s electricity distribution companies, has said all nonpaying customers within its franchise network will not be disconnected during the two-week lockdown period enforced by the government to curb the spread of COVID-19. The Disco said the decision to suspend all disconnection activities was taken to allow all its customers enjoy electricity supply during the period, while giving consideration to those unable to pay their March 2020 bills due to the closure. The acting Chief Executive Officer, Ikeja Electric, Folake Soetan, said in a statement, “At Ikeja Electric, we are committed to ensuring that our customers enjoy steady and quality supply throughout this difficult period and beyond. We recognise the fact that electricity supply is critical to our ability to stay safe, clean and indoors. “Therefore, we have also taken a decision to suspend all disconnection activities of nonpaying customers for the period of two weeks starting today. This is to ensure that customers who cannot afford to pay their March bills due to the closure continue to enjoy supply until the stay at home order is lifted.” According to her, customers who also wish to pay their bills can also do so using any of the company’s designated online payment platforms. “Our prepaid customers can buy energy online using any of your preferred online banking or merchant platforms. You can also visit our website to purchase vending units,” Soetan added. She said Ikeja Electric, as one of the companies designated as essential services providers, had put measures in place to ensure the availability of engineers and technicians to clear all forced and unforced outages, while also continuing with the preventive maintenance programmes. Ikeja Electric said the customer service representatives would be available to respond to all complaints and inquiries promptly and professionally. The Disco said it would leverage its world-class communication tools online and via social media to attend to complaints and inquiries while also increasing the turnaround time for resolution. Soetan said, “At Ikeja Electric, the job is not done until it is done. It is our job to serve you. In carrying out their job, our trained engineers will deploy globally accepted safety procedures and practise social distancing, and all that is required to contain the spread of COVID-19. “We, therefore, solicit the support of customers to cooperate with our staff as they carry out their duties while we restate our commitment to deliver steady electricity supply in line with our allocation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   