Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Chairman of the Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Mr Eni-Uduma Chima, on Sunday, disagreed with the National Human Rights Commission and the Commissioner for Information and State Orientation in the state, Mr Uchenna Orji, over the killing of one Chidi Agwu-Arua in the area. Agwu-Arua was allegedly killed by members of the local government’s anti-coronavirus task force during a clash with the loyalists of the member representing Afikpo South (West) in the state House of Assembly, Mr Nkemka Onuma, in the Nguzu Edda community. The NHRC had in a statement by its Executive Secretary, Anthony Ojukwu, blamed the Ebonyi State Anti-COVID-19 Task Force in the Afikpo South LGA for the killing. In a swift reaction, Orji denounced the NHRC statement and claimed that the killing resulted from a clash between youths of two neighbouring communities of Ekoli-Edda and Nguzu-Edda. However, the council boss, Chima, said both the NHRC and the commissioner’s positions on the incident were grossly inaccurate. He said, “With due respect to the reputable commission, it is either the source of the information was deliberately mischievous or no independent fact-finding verification or confirmation of the information was undertaken by the commission before heading to the press. “Similarly, I have immense respect for the Ebonyi State Ministry of Information and State Orientation and particularly for the person of its commissioner, Uchenna Orji. The ministry is noted for churning out reliable information, just as the commissioner is known for disseminating bankable information at all times. “However, the version of the killing in Afikpo South Local Government Area on March 27, 2020, narrated by the commissioner on April 18, 2020, is far from correct. “Sure, the NHRC boss, Mr Ojukwu, rightfully exonerated the Ebonyi State Anti-COVID 19 Task Force in Afikpo South from the said killing, but inadvertently substituted the task force with yet another innocent party as well as reconstructed the circumstances and scenario of the killing. He failed short of its intended purpose of putting the buck where it belongs.” Chima, who exonerated the taskforce and youths from the Ekoli-Edda autonomous community from the killing, however, admitted that the task force was earlier confronted by people holding a reception at Nguzu-Edda when its officials tried to ensure compliance with the lockdown, but argued that it had no hand in the killing, which took place later in the evening. He added, “The task force did not kill, did not witness the killing and was not present during the killing of anybody on March 27, 2020, and the said killing had nothing to do with the enforcement of the COVID-19 precautionary measures, rules and guidelines. “So, the National Human Rights Commission’s report linking the killing to the Anti-COVID 19 Task Force or enforcement of social distancing or ban on large gatherings is erroneous.” Chima described Orji’s submission that there was a communal conflict between youths from Nguzu Edda and Ekoli Edda over the curtailment of burials already scheduled in the area as incorrect. He added, “The gallant soldiers are not denying responsibility for the killing. What does it take to verify these glaring facts from the police or the army before going to press to accuse the Ebonyi State Anti-COVID-19 Task Force or community youths? “It is misleading to explain the killing within the context of the COVID-19 and lockdown enforcement or communal clash by the National Human Rights Commission and the Ebonyi State Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, respectively; just as it is unfounded and indefensible to pin the killing on the Anti-COVID-19 Task Force, Ekoli-Edda youths or any other person or persons other than the team of soldiers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.