Sodiq Oyeleke Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Sunday, marked the Easter celebration with medical workers and patients at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Yaba and the Onikan Isolation Centre, Lagos Island. The governor appeared, alongside a gospel artiste, Abolaji Banjoko, popularly known Beejay Sax, in a live video streamed at the isolation facilities. In the video, the Governor and the artiste sent greetings and lifted the spirit of the medical personnel with songs of praise, even as they attended to medical emergencies. As the music played on, the health workers and volunteers excitedly trooped out of the isolation wards, dancing towards the gospel band positioned at a safe distance in the facilities, The PUNCH learnt. Patients in the isolation facilities were not left out of the excitement as some of them in the advanced stage of treatment danced to the tunes in their wards. Others stayed by the windows and waved intermittently to acknowledge the gospel artiste’s musical ministration. Earlier, the governor and his wife, Dr Ibijoke, participated in a church service in commemoration of the Easter season online. The governor, in a statement by his Cheif Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, said the gesture to boost the morale of the health workers. He described all the frontline health workers engaged by Lagos in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic as “heroes”. Sanwo-Olu was quoted as saying, “Today being Easter, I take a moment to identify with all our health workers; the heroes who deny themselves of personal wellbeing and comfort to attend to emergencies we are grappling with at this period. “I left every other thing I am doing and thought it necessary to share this moment with those who endure great pain and discomfort to save all of us from the agony of the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic.” A volunteer nurse, Mrs Bimpe Arowolo, described the gesture as “motivating”. She thanked Sanwo-Olu for sharing the Easter moments with them, noting that the gesture lightened the mood of the workers and patients in the gloomy period.  She said, “This is the least thing we expected here today. The atmosphere in this environment has been devoid of any form of cheerfulness, because of the nature of the pandemic we are dealing with. We are all taken by surprise when the band started setting up its equipment. We didn’t know what they were up to until they started singing. “This has lightened up our spirits and it will motivate us to give our best to this important assignment, which requires everyone joining hands with the Government of Lagos State to stop coronavirus in the State. Thank you Governor Sanwo-Olu for keeping our spirits up in this rather gloomy Easter period.”