Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Government has begun to disinfect strategic locations within the state. The Commissioner for Environment, Gbenga Agbeyo, said the fumigation being undertaken in collaboration with the Emma-POP Ventures Limited, was to prevent residents of the state from contracting the disease. Agbeyo said the exercise, which started on Saturday, was “one of the proactive measures taken by the state government to curb outbreak of diseases and the spread of COVID-19.” He said targeted areas included markets, hospitals, schools and churches. Agbeyo advised residents of Ekiti to continue to abide by the directives given by Governor Kayode Fayemi with regards to measures being taken to stop the spread of the disease. The Head, Emma-POP Ventures Limited, Ademola Popoola, said the gesture was “to support the mission and vision of Dr Fayemi to curtail COVID-19 and provide a conducive environment for the people of the state,” adding that the exercise would last for four days. Meanwhile, Fayemi on Sunday assured members of the COVID-19 Response Resource Mobilisation Committee of transparency and accountability in the utilisation of the funds generated. Members of the committee include Chief Afe Babalola as grand patron; former governors Niyi Adebayo, Segun Oni and Ayodele Fayose as members; and a former Minister of Health, Chief Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi, as chairman. Fayemi said, “I want to assure you that the resources mobilised will be used for the purpose for which it is intended and we will maintain transparency and accountability all through the process. “We welcome suggestions and contributions on modalities for accomplishing the task ahead of us. Our mission is clear, the target has been attached to your letter of appointment – but nothing is cast in stone. The idea is to also leverage your experience, expertise and networks in this collective effort.” He said much of the meetings of the 47-member committee would be held via teleconferencing and other technological means, in view of the need to observe social distancing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.