Samuel Awoyinfa One of the strong bodies in the organised private sector, the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association, has asked the Federal Government to assist companies that are worst hit by the impact of the coronavirus fight. Specifically, the group is asking the government to help in augmenting the payment of their workers’ salaries. The Director-General of NECA, Dr Timothy Olawale, made the request in an exclusive interview with our correspondent on Thursday. While he noted that that the spread of the COVID-19 was beginning to have devastating effects on businesses and with dire implications for employers of labour, he said in other climes this sort of support had been initiated by governments. Olawale, who said the COVID-19 had tremendously changed world of work and threw up a number of lessons for businesses and employers, added that the main emphasis should be on containing the impact. He said, “In the short term, in order to minimise the potential job loss aftermath of COVID-19, we suggest, as the practice in other climes, government should augment payment of salaries of workers’ of companies that are worst hit by the impact of the pandemic by at least 50 per cent for the next four months. “We believe that with the growing spread of the COVID-19, having a significant and unsettled impact on businesses and with implications for employers of labour, the main emphasis is and should be on containing the impact.” Also, in order to ensure seamless payment of allowances to temporary and contract workers, Olawale said that employers in that sector should offer zero-interest loans to offset such payments. He said, “To cover for workers that are temporary and contract personnel, employers can submit a list of all contract workers with their BVN numbers who will be compensated subject to confirmation of employment status and consistent inflow. “For those without the BVN, the employers can be offered a zero-interest loan through the Bank of Industry for three months which is equivalent to the total payments they make to casual workers. “These companies can be tracked to ensure that disbursements are made into bank accounts, thereby guaranteeing subsequent financial inclusion.” Olawale stated that since the arrival of the index case of coronavirus into the country in February 2020, NECA had proposed several interventions to the federal and state governments in developing stimulus packages for industries in order to minimise the impact on businesses as well as their workers. He said, “As employer choice has become more limited, the challenges facing us have increased and this will continue. “We also proposed that the Federal Government should grant tax waivers, make provision for restructuring of existing loans, lowering of interest rate through the Central Bank of Nigeria, and other fiscal interventions, to businesses in order to sustain business and prevent job losses. “Employers should also be exempted from payment of some statutory contributions such as the NSITF, ITF and pension contributions during this pandemic period.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  