Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi No fewer than 19 people have been killed following the resurgence of Lassa fever in Bauchi State in 2020. The Bauchi State Deputy Governor, Senator Baba Tela, disclosed this at a press conference held in Thursday at the Banquet Hall, Government House, Bauchi. He added that no fewer than 48 people were under watch and undergoing treatment for the deadly disease in the state. He said, “It is not as if we have got rid of Lassa fever completely in the state; no, we have not. “And so far as at week 14 of our campaign, the total number of deaths to Lassa fever is 19 and we don’t have any new case so far. “And we are following up contacts of about 48 cases and those 48 have been confirmed and are under medication and they are recovering very well.” The deputy governor, who is also the Chairman, Bauchi State Task Force Committee on COVID-19 and Lassa fever, stated that the biggest challenge the state had was low level of awareness among the citizens. He further urged the people of the state to always report any suspected case of Lassa fever in the state, adding that early discovery and treatment could help the patient to recover. He stressed that the state government would embark on a massive public awareness on the scourge of the disease by educating the masses on what to do and what not to be done. “The most important thing again on the issue of Lassa fever is public awareness and that is what we are trying to do; telling the people what to do and what not to do. “For example, we have been educating people not to touch the body of a relative who died of the disease because one can get infected by touching the body. “We understand the pain of losing someone dear to you but people would say the last thing they would do is to wash them up in Islamic way and bury them. “But even doing that is creating more health hazards and that is what we have been trying to inform people that they should try as long as the death is from Lassa fever, to quickly inform the authority so that something can be done about it,” Tela stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  