Ebenezer Bajela Nigeria Football Federation president, Amaju Pinnick, has sounded a note of warning to Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, saying no one is indispensable as far as the national team job is concern. Rohr, who took over the national team job in August 2016, has entered the final three months of his contract with the Nigerian Federation and is set for a new contract, which the NFF president assured will be delivered next week. Speaking on Arise TV’s The Morning Show on Monday, Amaju revealed the conditions in the new contract that was to be offered to the Franco-German. “Going forward, we want to be very thorough with Rohr’s contract. Let’s say within the next one week he should get his contract and he should study the contract and possibly come back to us because his contract ends in June,” Pinnick told Arise TV. “What I know and I have insisted, he must live in Nigeria. Anywhere of his choice, if he wants to live in Warri, if he wants to live in Lagos, no problem. He can travel three times in a week and he can bring in his wife. “The reason why he needs to live in Nigeria is to go around the league and see how we can nurture some of these players and make them part of the national team. Two of us occasionally will go see some games and he can take notes. “Also, his salary will be in naira and that one is certain because we have to do everything humanly and materially possible in encouraging our currency. He will be paid in naira whatever his equivalent in dollars.” However, Pinnick said there could be an issue going forward between the NFF and Rohr, should the 66-year-old refuse the new clauses in his contract. “If he is able to accept them, then we have a deal. But if he is not, there is nobody that is indispensable. There are lots of coaches out there that want to coach Nigeria. “I get calls every day from coaches that want to come. But we believed we can maintain this momentum and this relationship and we believe with the crop of players that we have, who are young, dynamic and very discipline, I believe we can do great things at the Nations Cup and even qualify for the World Cup and do well at the tournament proper. “We want to maintain this harmony but the only thing that can impede it is if he refuses some of our new clauses in the contract.” Since taking over the Eagles’ job, Rohr has enjoyed some relatively amount of success, qualifying the country for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia and a third-place place finish at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  