Dele Ogunyemi, Warri The Inspector-General of Police, Mr Mohammad Adamu, and the Commissioner of Police, Delta State Command, Mr Muhammed Inuwa, have been called upon to order an investigation into the brutal clubbing to death of a tricycle rider, Mr Sylvester Okonedo, by suspected members of a local vigilante outfit in the state. Okonedo, a father of three, was reportedly beaten to death on April 8, 2020, by members of the Otokutu local vigilante outfit in the Ughelli South Local Government Area of the state for allegedly refusing to part with N50, while exiting Otokutu. The deceased was said to have earlier paid the same amount to the vigilantes, who mounted an illegal roadblock at the entrance to the community. Eyewitnesses stated that the deceased, who was beaten with a plank, managed to crawl to the Otokutu Market Square, where he eventually collapsed before he was aided to hospital, where he was pronounced dead. But a social media report by one Harrison Gwamnishu accused operatives of the Delta State Police Command of being responsible for Okonedo’s untimely death. However, the Delta-based Foundation for Rights Advocate, on Sunday insisted that those arrested by the police in connection with the killing were the wrong suspects. The National President of the group, ‘Tega Shalokpe, stated that investigation discreetly carried out in the community indicated that one of the local vigilante men, who smashed a plank on Okonedo’s head, was still walking about freely. The FRA boss appealed to the IGP and Inuwa to thoroughly investigate the killing and bring the culprits as well as the person, who wrongly accused the police of being responsible for the death, to justice. Reacting, Inuwa confirmed the arrest of some suspects in connection with the killing. The CP, however, promised to “dig deeper” into the incident with a view to ensuring that justice was served accordingly. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.