Samuel Awoyinfa The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria says it is currently holding talks with state governors on the need to loosen up more industries across the country in order to ensure production of products and save jobs. The acting Director-General of MAN, Mr Ambrose Oruche, disclosed this to our correspondent in an exclusive interview on Wednesday. Oruche said in the earlier speech of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), it had issued express permission to manufacturers in the pharmaceutical, foods, beverages and packaging industries to operate during the lockdown, but with strict adherence to safety measures against the spread of the coronavirus disease. He, however, told our correspondent that since the President said state governors would release guidelines as it suits the peculiarities in their states in containing the virus, it became imperative for MAN to open discussion with them. He said, “MAN has started talks with the state governors, especially in Lagos, Ogun and Rivers states on the need to open up more industries for production of goods. “The President in his earlier speech had granted access to those in pharmaceutical, foods, beverages and packaging industries to operate. “He added in his speech on Sunday that the state governors would issue guidelines to guide citizens in their respective states on how to contain the spread of the coronavirus.” Oruche added, “MAN is already in talks with the state governors, especially in Lagos, Ogun and Rivers states, on the need to open up more industries for economic sustainability and to prevent job losses. “While we appreciate the concern of the government at the various levels to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus, the MAN will also prevail on members to adhere to all precautionary measures such as social distancing, use of face masks, washing of hands and provision of sanitizers at work places.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.  