Ebenezer Bajela Ex-international, Garba Lawal, has lamented the Federal Government’s poor handling of the lockdown directive due to the coronavirus pandemic. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), announced on March 29 that Abuja, Lagos and Ogun would observe a mandatory two-week stay at home to help curtail the spread of the virus. But the ex-Eagles star, despite applauding the FG’s initiative, said the situation could have been better if the masses were provided with food. “If the Federal Government says we should stay at home, where are we going to go? You cannot go anywhere but stay at home and wait for further directives. You asked people to stay at home, but when they don’t have food to eat, they will have to go outside and look for what to eat,” Lawal told The PUNCH. “Masses don’t buy food that will last them for one week or a month. Most of them go out to get what they will eat on a daily basis. What do you expect them to do in this kind of situation? Did the government provide food for them? “The same government that said they were giving out food items should know better. Are those food items going to be enough for the masses? Are the masses getting the food? These are the questions I am asking the Federal Government. “Isn’t it possible that food is distributed from house to house. Maybe they can consult with the power holding company and asked them how they distribute their bills and use their data to share food to masses. “The situation is very disturbing and we are really in a very difficult time. If the government provides enough food for citizens, will they have any reason to go out?” The former Roja JC player also condemned the poor treatment of citizens by the officials of the Nigeria Police Force during the lockdown. “In a situation where policemen are beating up people, it’s a very wrong thing to do. If you look at the people being beaten, they are the poor people, not the rich men. “No one wants to contract the coronavirus because it is a very dangerous thing but they also don’t want to go hungry at home.” ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.