Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has said that the 500,000 N-Power enrollees across the country should expect to receive bank credit alerts for outstanding payments of their monthly entitlements from Tuesday, April 14. This followed the signing of the payment mandate by the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar-Farouq, after all due processes were concluded in line with the rules guiding the Federal Government’s public financial expenditures. The minister was quoted in a statement issued by her ministry as saying, “Those responsible for processing the payment must do it in conformity with the necessary rules and regulations to ensure accountability. “Now that the rules were followed strictly and the process concluded, I was given the assurances that they will start receiving credit alerts from their banks today, Tuesday, April 14, 2020.” She said the creation of her ministry was leading to the institutionalisation of the programme, which entailed that payments for N-Power participants or their enrolment must be through transparent processes in line with the relevant rules to ensure accountability. The minister restated the resolve of government to overhaul the National Social Investment Programmes, including the N-Power component to ensure transparency, effectiveness, accountability and the judicious application of public resources in running the programmes. “The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development will along with relevant partners drive the overhauling process to ensure that the expected benefits of the NSIPs are realised in full,” she said. The N-Power scheme is a job creation and skills empowerment programme of the Federal Government, designed to help young Nigerians acquire and develop life-long skills. Its aim is to make beneficiaries become practical solution providers in their communities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  