Okechukwu Nnodim The Conditional Cash Transfer office has said that its mode of cash disbursement to CCT beneficiaries is done electronically and not by direct cash payments as alleged by some National Assembly members. Earlier this month, the National Assembly faulted the manner in which the CCT programme was being implemented. Also, there had been concerns pertaining the mode of payment adopted by the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, the ministry in charge of the CCT programme, with respect to the disbursement of monies to beneficiaries. But the National Coordinator for the CCT programme, Temitope Sinkaye, told our correspondent that claims suggesting that the government was doling out cash directly to undocumented persons were misplaced. Sinkaye insisted that CCT beneficiaries were paid electronically by the humanitarian ministry through her agency. She said, “When you have a virtual wallet and you go to a POS, what does the POS give? It gives you cash. And that is why you saw that they (beneficiaries) brought their cards to the centres before they could collect cash. “It is the cards that were used to carry out the transaction before the beneficiaries were able to collect cash. This is because there is no bank that is closer to them where they can cash money.” She added, “They can only go to agents who operate POS services. And the reason why we did it that way is to ensure seamless transaction.” Sinkaye said some of the beneficiaries were illiterates, which was why the agency created a wallet account where payments were made. “Another thing we did was to ensure that the agents are licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Not every POS agent can do the payment, except those licensed by CBN,” the CCT coordinator said. Sinkaye said CCT beneficiaries had payment cards which an agent swipes through an electronic system and the amount to be paid, beneficiary’s name and other details could be seen. “So it is electronic and not cash payment as most people say. If you go to the ATM, what will you collect? It is cash, of course. Would you now say that that payment from the ATM is not electronically generated?” she stated. When asked if her agency had never done direct cash payment, Sinkaye replied, “How can we do cash payment? How do you monitor it? How do you do audit trail? “Please we don’t pay cash directly, it is done electronically and can be traced. This is an old programme that has been on since 2016. “We’ve been trying to explain this but it’s like people have their minds made up on what to believe on this matter. It is electronic payment as is done with the ATM, but here it is through POS.” She explained that members of any particular community where the programme was being implemented were the ones who by themselves identify the poor and vulnerable in their midst. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  