Nike Popoola The Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council has suspended the implementation of its 60-day National Action Plan due to the effect of COVID-19 on activities in the country On February 5, 2020, PEBEC commenced its fifth 60-day NAP 5.0 aimed at the rapid implementation of targeted reforms for the improvement of Nigeria’s business environment. A statement from PEBEC stated, “Nigeria’s signature National Action Plans are 60-day accelerators used for the delivery of priority business climate reforms in the country. “NAP 5.0 was billed to run from February 5, 2020 to April 4, 2020, however, the reforms implemented so far cover only the first 38 days of the 60-day accelerator, due to disruptions to work caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.” The Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business and Secretary to the PEBEC, Dr Jumoke Oduwole, said, “While the NAP 5.0 reform window is on hold for now, the implementation of outstanding reforms will resume in earnest immediately after the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown comes to an end. “During the lockdown, the PEBEC Secretariat has maintained close contact with small and medium-sized businesses and key organised private sector bodies nationwide, and have spoken to over 650 SMEs by phone so far to listen to their most pressing needs during this crisis as well as communicate relief measures already being implemented by the Federal Government to support Small and Medium Enterprises at this critical time.” It stated that despite disruptions to work due to the COVID-19 pandemic, some ministries, departments and agencies were still being able to implement key targeted reforms successfully. PEBEC noted that the Lagos State Inland Revenue Service achieved full automation of tax registration, filing and electronic payment of Personal Income Tax and corporate taxes, making it easier for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises to file their taxes. It added that the Kano State Judiciary updated the publications of judgements and performance reports for all five of the small claims courts established in the state in 2019 on the website of the Kano State Judiciary, thereby facilitating the enforcement of contracts. The availability of performance reports and copies of judgments would also improve transparency and engender confidence and trust in the judicial system in Kano State, it stated. It added that, “The Enabling Business Environment Secretariat also provided technical support to the Edo State Judiciary for the establishment of 11 small claims courts in Edo State. “These small claims courts, the first to be established in the South South, which were launched in Benin on March 2, 2020.” The PEBEC was established by the Federal Government in 2016 to oversee Nigeria’s business climate reform agenda and is chaired by the Vice-President, with the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment as Vice-Chair, among other members. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com