Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Government has said it will soon commence the payment of monetary compensation to the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the explosion that rocked the Shoba community in the Abule-Ado area of the state on Sunday, March 15, 2020. PUNCH Metro had reported that the explosion killed 23 persons, including the Administrator and some workers of the Bethlehem Girls College, and also destroyed over 60 buildings. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation had said the explosion was caused by a truck, which hit a stack of gas cylinders, but some residents of the community faulted the claim, alleging that the explosion was caused by a bomb. The fire, which followed the explosion, ravaged the community and burnt many buildings. Over 586 residents were rendered homeless as a result of the tragedy. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had set up a N2bn relief fund for the victims of the explosion. The Director-General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, in a statement on Sunday, said the state government had promised to support the victims of the explosion, adding that over 100 displaced persons were currently accommodated at the agency’s relief camp. He said, “Following an extensive search and rescue exercise for four days, a total of 23 lives were recorded as having been lost with over 586 persons displaced. “The government of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu promised to stand by all those affected by the unfortunate incident and has to date accommodated over 100 displaced persons in the LASEMA relief camp. “In furtherance of this commitment, financial support is being made to the identified next of kin of each of the fatalities and will be presented to the designated family members on behalf of the Lagos State Government by the Deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, in the coming days. “We continue to urge well-meaning members of the public to report anonymously any unsavoury elements, who are endangering lives and property for selfish purposes to prevent future tragic incidents. Let us stay safe and continue to observe social distancing.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.