National Association of Government General Medical and Dental Practitioners Ogun State Chapter has said that its members need to be well-equipped to combat the rising cases of coronavirus in the state. The association also called on Governor Dapo Abiodun to prioritise the welfare of its members in the fight against COVID-19. The association in a statement by its Chairman, Dr. Durojaiye Oluwatosin and Secretary, Dr. Ajayi Abiodun, distanced itself from claims that frontline health workers battling coronavirus in the state were adequately equipped with Personal Protective Equipment. The association clarified that health workers who contracted the virus were those working in the hospital and not the isolation centres. The association said, “With a view to adequately continue to fight against COVID-19, we are demanding the provision of PPE for all health facility in the State; appropriate remuneration of all health workers in accordance with what is approved by the Federal Government; hazard allowance to be reviewed to N100,000.00 monthly. “Others are the implementation of tax holiday for a period of three months to start from March 1, 2020 for all health workers in the State; implementation of Scarce Skill and Hardship allowance for all doctors in the State employment, to be regarded as COVID-19 allowance and approval of life insurance cover for all doctors and all other health workers facing the fight of COVID-19.” Also, the Association of Resident Doctors, Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu, Ogun State appealed to the state government to protect and appreciate doctors who are putting up their lives on the line to rescue the victims of pandemic COVID-19. The ARD also demanded remuneration for all doctors working in OOUTH with 50 per cent of their consolidated basic as hazard allowance. At the press briefing addressed by its President, Dr. Mutiu Abiodun Popoola and attended by its Acting General Secretary, Dr. T.A. Osundara, the association demanded that “all doctors working directly in isolation/treatment center be given additional 20 per cent of the initial 50 per cent as special risk allowance as well as immediate adjustment of Appropriate Remuneration to avoid more exit of Resident Doctors and Medical Officers who are the Frontline in the management particularly during this pandemic period that more hands are needed “Group Life Insurance by the state government to all Resident Doctors, Medical Officers, and House Officers in OOUTH to cover for up to 300 per cent of annual take home in case of infirmity, permanent disability or death.” It also demanded the reactivation of employees compensation act provision of 2010, adding that in the event of death in the course of duty, the four children of the deceased up to the age of 21 should be trained to tertiary level. The association also demanded a waiver on tax on professional allowances, noting that the state government should ensure that all Resident Doctors, Medical Officers and House Officers in OOUTH are paid Personal Protective Equipment allowance proportional to their requirements.