Olufemi Atoyebi The president of the Trade Union Congress, Quadri Olaleye, said suspension of subsidy regime in Nigeria would only be sustainable if petroleum products were being produced locally. The Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari, on Monday said the era of fuel subsidy in Nigeria had gone forever. He stated that with the current fluctuations in global crude oil prices, the cost of refined products would be determined by market forces going forward. According to him, although the NNPC was not responsible for petroleum products pricing, Nigeria was currently transiting into a market situation where the forces of demand and supply would determine the cost of petrol. In March, the Federal Government reduced the pump price of petrol from N145 per litre to N125 per litre. It was further reduced to N123.50 per litre on April 1, 2020. In an exclusive interview with our correspondent, the TUC boss said Nigeria wasted numerous opportunities to put its refineries into use before COVID-19 depleted the world economy. He said, “The price of crude has fallen now and it is about the cheapest within the last decade. “I am aware that government has been struggling with the deregulation issue for some time and now that it has said that subsidy is gone. “It must allow independent marketers to bring in fuel into the country instead of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation doing it.” He added, “Unfortunately, Nigeria did not take advantage of high price of crude oil to put our own refineries to use. When we had the money, we did not do it. Now that the money has dwindled, I wonder how government will do that. However, the best option is to secure the economy, make the refineries work and create jobs for Nigerians through that. “We have a chance to deregulate now that price has fallen globally. If we deregulate now and allow independent marketers to import, even if the price goes up again, there will be no need for subsidy.” The TUC boss added that there should always be regulation of price, adding that with many players in the market, consumers would have options. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  