Dayo Ojerinde The father of a 11-year-old boy, Kehinde Yusuf, has appealed to Nigerians to help his son with the sum of N300,000 to settle hospital bill and procure physiotherapy kits. In an interview with our correspondent, Mr Isiaka Yusuf, said his son had been receiving treatment at the University College Hospital, Ibadan since 2011. Kehinde, according to him, was suffering from hydrocephalus, an abnormal condition that occurs when fluids build up in the skull and cause the head to swell. Recall that The Punch had on September 6, 2018, published a story where Yusuf also appealed to Nigerians to help him with the funds to settle the hospital bill for his son. He said the money he got from Nigerians when the story was published in 2018 was N270,000 and it was used to offset medical bills at UCH. “He and his twin brother, Taiwo, were born normal but six months after, Kehinde had repeated high temperature prompting my wife and I to take him to Ado-Awaye General Hospital, Iseyin Local Government Area, Oyo State where a doctor passed a drip via his head. Two weeks later, my child’s head started growing more than his entire body and he could not sit, walk and control his head since then. He had undergone two surgeries (one at the University College Hospital, Ibadan and the other at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, Ilorin) and currently undergoing physiotherapy at the UCH. “He is due to be discharged at the UCH, but we were told by the hospital to go and look for the treatment balance, as well as money to buy the physiotherapy chair and kits to manage his condition till he gets better,” Isiaka said. Yusuf can be reached via his mobile number; 08022300344, while donation can be made to his United Bank for Africa Account number; 2065983593 – Account name: Isiaka Adewale Yusuf. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.