Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State Government has arrested four illegal tree cutters and seized 19 truckloads of logs during the lockdown at the J1 area in the Ijebu-Igbo Local Government Area of the state. The Commissioner for Forestry, Tunji Akinosi, said this on Tuesday in a statement by the Press Officer in the ministry, Adesoji Solarin. The statement said the suspects were caught engaging in illegal cutting of trees in the forest reserve on Sunday. According to the statement, the commissioner led members of a task force and management staff of the ministry on monitoring of the J4 and J1 forest reserves and caught the suspects with 19 truckloads of logs. Akinosi lamented that it was baffling that illegality was still going on in the reserves despite the COVID-19 lockdown by the government. The task force impounded five motorcycles and two tree-cutting machines, and handed over the four suspects to the police at the Ijebu-Igbo Police Division. The statement read in part, “The commissioner spoke on the development, saying the present administration would not be deterred in doing what is right concerning forest conservation and management. “The government will continue to make more arrests and prosecute offenders. “The illegal loggers caught were handed over to the police at the Ijebu-Igbo Division, while all the logging machines and motorcycles seized were taken to the Governor’s Office in Abeokuta. “The government will continue to hunt down illegalities perpetrated in the forest reserves. We are undeterred by the actions of some people, who want to subvert the government’s efforts at fighting illegal activities in the state’s reserves.” Akinosi warned that all illegal occupants in Kajola, Gbokutaru and other neighbouring villages around the Eyin-Osun and Oke-Sopin areas of Ijebu-Igbo should vacate the occupied land immediately to avoid prosecution. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.