Olaide Oyelude, Katsina It was a chaotic situation in many banks, markets and shops in Katsina metropolis on Monday as residents made last minute transactions before the lockdown order imposed on the city from today (Tuesday) to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the state by Governor Aminu Masari comes into effect. The governor had on Sunday announced the lockdown of the city and the entire Katsina Local Government Area following the discovery of two new cases of coronavirus in the city, which brings the number of such cases to 12 in the state with one death already recorded. Residents turned out in large numbers at banks, markets, supermarkets and big shops in the Katsina metropolis to make withdrawals and buy foodstuffs, preparatory to the lockdown. The situation was chaotic in some banks, especially those in Kofar Kaoran, the commercial nerve centre of the city, which had to shut their gates against customers and directed them to make use of the Automated Teller Machines. The situation was the same at the Sabo Kasuwa (New Market), where residents were seen at foodstuffs’ stalls. A housewife, Hajiya Kolo Rafindadi, said she was in the market to purchase food items for her family since nobody knew how long the lockdown would last. “I am a nurse and in most cases, I am on duty, but I have to make adequate preparations for my family since only God knows how long the lockdown will last,” she stated. Another housewife, Mrs Ngozi Ann, gave similar reasons for being at the market, adding that she had several dependants, hence her decision to carry out bulk purchase of food items and cooking ingredients to take care of her family and the dependants. A restaurateur along the Kofar Kaoran Road, however, expressed fears about her business and that of others in the same line if the lockdown lasts long. The middle-aged woman, who spoke on condition of anonymity said, “Before the government ordered the lockdown, we were complaining of low sales. Now, with the lockdown, we only pray that we are not pushed to indebtedness. My prayer is that the lockdown does not last for too long.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.