Success Nwogu, Abuja The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons and other related offences on Wednesday said its men had arrested a 42-year-old pharmacist, Abubarkar Danraka, for alleged  sodomy. A statement by an official of the Press Unit of NAPTIP, Osamuyi Oyegun, said  Danraka  who had a PhD, was arrested after he allegedly had an anal sexual intercourse with a 12 year-old boy (name withheld). Oyegun said the offence was contrary to the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act 2015. According to him, the suspect, who is a resident of Spring Valley Estate of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja works at the National Hospital, Abuja is the Special Assistant (Technical) to the Director General of the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development, Abuja. He added that Danraka, who hails from Zaria, Kaduna State is also an imam in the mosque within his estate. Oyegun said the 12-year-old victim told NAPTIP men that the crime took place on Saturday, March 21, 2020, at the residence of the suspect. According to him, after their religious educational programme (Islamiyya) that afternoon, he decided to check on his friend who happens to be a neighbour of the suspect. He explained that when he got to his friend’s residence, he  knocked at the door, but  there was no response. He added that as he made to leave the suspect opened his door and beckoned on him to come. The suspect was said to appeared friendly and offered the victim a glass of water which the boy took and later began to feel weak. “In that state of weakness the suspect overpowered him, laid him on a red settee in his sitting room and forced his penis into his (victim) anus. “After the suspect was done, he asked him to go home with a stern warning not to mention what had happened to anyone. “On getting home, his mother scolded him about his whereabouts but noticed her son was uneasy. She took him into the room questioned him and he opened up about what had happened to him. “The victim said his mother checked his body and saw sperm content and bruises around his anus region. She and the father rushed him to the National Hospital, Abuja where he was admitted. The victim was discharged on Thursday, March 26, 2020 after spending five days in the hospital,” the statement read. He said the  suspect who is currently in NAPTIP’s custody, denied involvement in the crime. Oyegun said an identification parade was, however,  done where a number of men with the height and stature of the suspect were put together, and the victim was able to identify the suspect. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  