with the Covid-19 pandemic having made landfall in Nigeria, there has been no shortage of measures instituted to combat the disease. There have also been a plethora of suggested remedies ranging from the well-considered ones to the frankly superstitious. Within the councils of government, initial confusion has given way to a series of well calibrated measures instituted in various states to deal with the problem. Among all these has been the latest measure announced by the government of Osun State which is set to make it a compulsory undertaking to wear a mask when anyone is outdoors. That is a good move and it has a solid foundation in terms of the experience gathered in South East Asia where this has proved to be a successful approach towards prevention in Vietnam, Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan. It is tempting at a time like this to assume that people would have become weary with all the sordid news surrounding this disease. This aspect is important however. The use of a face mask is not to be taken as a solitary measure to tackle the disease but as an additional task to be performed besides the washing of the hands with soap and water and/ or an alcohol-based hand rub as well as other measures recommended to maintain social distancing during this pandemic. All of this is taking on added importance because there is now the recognition that coughing, sneezing and even talking have the potential to propel the droplets of saliva containing the virus as far as three metres. An important way to stop and filter this virus, therefore, is to wear a mask even if it is home-made. As that now appears to be the new direction of the effort to control this pandemic in our country, it is important to educate people about how to use this device. The face mask is not an ornament nor is it a part of the dressing code. The terrible devastation of the present is what has made its use a necessary condition for the assurance of our protection from this respiratory infection. If you are well, you probably only need to wear a face mask while taking care of somebody who has the features of Covid-19 infection. To a large extent, this would be limited to health care workers involved in rendering such care. However, this is an important device to put on when taking care of anyone who is either in self-isolation at home or under close observation having tested positive to the virus. In the light of new facts emerging about the nature of the disease and how it is spread, healthy people who venture outdoors would be required to wear a mask in increasing numbers around the world in the next few days to a fortnight. The objective would be to prevent healthy individuals from contracting the disease from droplets. Before a mask is put on, it is vital to wash both hands with soap and water or use a hand sanitiser which is usually alcohol based. Sometimes, you would find yourself using both and nothing is wrong with that. The mask should cover both the mouth and the nose, rather than the mouth alone as many people who use it are prone to doing. The mask is mandatory when you are nursing a cough. When you are sneezing, that is less practical to predict and it is advised that you do so into your bent elbow or into a piece of tissue paper which is then discarded neatly. The mask should be worn for as long as you are outdoors. About a week ago, one was horrified to see people who wore masks properly but would pull them down to speak with the people around them. It was almost as though they felt they were not audible enough and needed to get the mask off their mouths so that they could be heard. That is self-defeating ultimately, and negates the fundamental principle behind its use. Secondly, in wearing such a mask, you need to ensure that it has a snug fit. There should be no gaps between the mask and the face. Gaps like that will allow for the passage of droplets and infectious material between them and place the wearer at risk of contracting an infection. As a result, such a mask will fail in protecting the person wearing it. The manufactures usually place a flexible material across the part of the mask that will rest on the nose.  This should be pressed down unto the bridge of the nose to ensure a proper fit. During the funeral of the recently nation’s chief of staff, who died from complications of the Covid-19 infection, there were several people in the crowd who touched objects around them and then handled the masks they wore. That is a serious breach of the principles governing its use. When a mask is worn, you must avoid touching it in case you inadvertently use the hands to pick up microbes that could then end up in the mouth. Or for that matter, pick up organisms from the surroundings that might end up on the mask. It must be noted at any point that, in many cases, the propagation of an infection from one person to another requires only a little infringement to be committed. When a mask is damp from sweat and other things, it is vital to remove and replace it. A single use mask should not be used repeatedly; rather it should be discarded neatly as soon as it has fulfilled its purpose. A damp mask is far more likely to transmit infections than a dry one. In removing it, you should take it from behind, from the straps that attach to the ears and move it forwards before discarding it immediately into a closed bin. After doing so, you should wash your hands with soap and water and dry them with a paper towel or a piece of tissue paper which should similarly be discarded. In cities around the world where people were already used to wearing face masks even in the absence of disease, these tips are things they are already familiar with. In much of Africa, this new direction is a strange and uncertain one and there are those who will view all these developments with suspicion. It is to this group of people, in particular, that this essay is directed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  