Nike Popoola Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, says it has introduced customer relief initiatives aimed at reducing the unease felt by its customers as a result of the COVID-19 global pandemic. A statement from the bank said the measures would commence from April 1, 2020. It said they would involve a “full waiver of Merchant Settlement Charge for two weeks for all merchants who accept payments using Stanbic IBTC Bank Point of Sale terminal for the two weeks; full waiver of current account maintenance fees and interbank transfer charges for one month for customers who reactivate their dormant or inactive accounts; waiver of transfer charges on the first five interbank transfers they effect within the month of April 2020 for other customers with active accounts.” The movements of individuals had to be curtailed to discourage physical contact among people as a way of curtailing the spread of the virus, it added. Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc also said it had closed some of its branches, to safeguard the lives of its customers and employees. It stated that branches that were operational could be found on the bank’s website. The bank also encouraged its customers to make use of its digital banking platforms for transactions during this period. Speaking on the customer relief initiatives, the Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Mr Yinka Sanni, said the measures were aimed at ameliorating the pains of the customers while also preventing the spread of the deadly virus. He said, “As a responsible financial institution, we are not unaware of the effects of COVID-19, especially on our members of staff and customers. “The decision by the bank to set aside the merchant settlement charge for two weeks for those who use Stanbic IBTC’s PoS terminals, waive current account maintenance fees and free interbank transfers for inactive/dormant account holders and zero interbank transfer charges for the first five transactions for all other customers within the month of April is our way of easing the pains and discomfort they are going through during this period.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com