Johnson Okafor A 22-year-old man, Jeremiah Onochie, has been arraigned before a Federal Capital Territory court sitting in Abuja for impersonating Vetiva Capital Limited’s managing director and obtaining money from members of the public with a promise of 100 per cent interest within one hour. Vetiva Capital Management Limited is a financial service company incorporated in Nigeria and is duly regulated and registered by the Securities & Exchange Commission and the Nigerian Stock Exchange to carry on business as an issuing house, market maker and fund/portfolio manager. Also, it carries out business of trusteeship and stockbroking. According to a statement from SEC, during the arraignment before Senior Magistrate Ibrahim Mohammed of the FCT Court 6, it was gathered that Vetiva Capital Management Ltd on January 08, had written a petition against three individuals namely, Jeremiah Chukwu Onochie, Hussaini Abdulrasheed and Chinonso Ndu, for impersonation and obtaining money from members of the public with the promise of 100 per cent interest within an hour. One of the suspects, Jeremiah, was reportedly tracked and arrested by SEC Police Unit for impersonation by posing and claiming to be the managing director of the company. Furthermore, the suspect it was alleged, opened a WhatsApp group which he used to lure investors and promised victims 100 per cent profits within one hour of investing. He was also said to have opened a bank account and used the PoS to move the money out of the account within a short period. The prosecution told the court that bank records showed that about N0.5 million was deposited by different investors at different time to the bank account, and there was almost immediate movement of money out of the account. The court adjourned the case to May 17, 2020. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  