Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The crisis rocking a faction of the People’s Democratic Party in Ogun the State on Monday deepened as some  members of the State Working Committee suspended the chairman, Adebayo Dayo, for  alleged  anti-party activities. The PDP had been enmeshed in a supremacy crisis between a former senator representing Ogun East, Buruji Kashamu; and a former House of Representatives member, Oladipupo Adebutu. While Kashamu was in control of the executive  led by Dayo, Adebutu was in charge of a  faction led  by Sikirulahi Ogundele. The suspension was contained in a statement by the state  factional Publicity Secretary, Oyejide Sunkanmi, on Monday. Oyejide said the resolution to suspend Dayo was signed by 10 members out of the 14 members of the SWC of the party. According to the Oyejide, one of Dayo’s offences was his failure to attend the SWC meeting despite the prior notification of the meeting. The statement read in part, “Engineer Adebayo Dayo is hereby suspended for a period of one month from the date hereof in the first instance; and thereafter until the National Executive Committee takes a decision regarding the allegations made by the PDP OGSWC against him. “The state Deputy Chairman of the PDP, Mr Samson Bamgbose, is hereby authorised to act as the state chairman till the election of and handover to new officers of the party at state level as scheduled.” Oyejide said the letter was signed by all members of the State Executive Committee, which comprises the SWC, 20 local government chairmen and relevant ward executives in the state’s 236 wards. Attempts to get the reaction of the embattled chairman proved abortive as his mobile lines did not go through as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  