Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc says it is committed to lending a helping hand to several states across the country. FMN in a statement said it would be donating essential food products to alleviate the challenges faced by Nigerians in the wake of the Coronavirus outbreak and the impact of the partial lockdown instituted to curb the spread of the virus. To kick start the food donation drive across the country, the company said it has donated several trucks of food products to Lagos State in support of the state’s ongoing food relief efforts. Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the company, Paul Gbededo, said, “During this trying time, we truly need to come together as a people to fight the scourge of the COVID-19 virus. The virus is casting a shadow on our way of life in Nigeria and the world, but we believe that with continued collaboration, we can alleviate the suffering of Nigerians and continue to bring hope to those who have suffered and lost. “For a company like ours that had shared such a deep connection with Nigeria for 60 years, we understand the challenges, especially during this trying time. As most Nigerians now stay at home to break the spread of this pandemic, they must continue to get access to healthy and nutritious food. In line with our purpose of feeding the Nation, Everyday, FMN is committed to doing that.” The company also disclosed that in addition to food relief, it would be providing medical aid through the donation of medical equipment and kits for first responders, especially frontline medical workers and security personnel. The Group Chief Operating Officer of the company, Boye Olusanya, said, “To reduce the impact of the Coronavirus outbreak, FMN will continue to work with the government and related agencies at both the federal and state levels to provide relief materials. The safety of Nigerians is paramount to us, so we encourage all Nigerians to adhere to the necessary protective measures against the virus and its spread. “We must commend the efforts of the Nigerian government so far in the fight against the spread of the virus and implore all Nigerians to continue to abide by the advice given by the World Health Organisation and Federal and State Health Agencies, including the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control.”