Oladimeji Ramon The Inter-Academy Partnership of Academies of Sciences and Medicine has called for rapid, accurate and transparent international communication on COVID-19 as the world battles the pandemic. In a statement on Wednesday, the body said given the novel nature of coronavirus, it was important for epidemiologists around the world not to hoard information but to share their findings urgently and transparently in the ongoing search for a cure. This, they said, was critical to winning the war against the rampaging virus. The global body said this in a joint statement on Wednesday by 15 of its members. The members, who signed the statement, are Academia Brasileira de Ciências, Brazil; Royal Society of Canada; Canada Académie des Sciences; France Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher ‘Leopoldina’; Germany Global Young Academy; Indian National Science Academy; India Indonesian Academy of Sciences; Indonesia Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei; and Italy Science Council of Japan; Others are Japan Nigerian Academy of Science; Nigeria Korean Academy of Science and Technology; Republic of Korea Russian Academy of Sciences; Russia Royal Society; United Kingdom National Academy of Sciences; and the United States of America National Academy of Medicine. They said, “We all believe it is essential to emphasise, together, the urgency of international cooperation, in several dimensions: “Rapid, accurate, and transparent international communication about the unfolding epidemiology of this novel viral disease, including patterns of transmission, incubation period and lethality, and the efficacy of various methods of intervention. “Sharing of information about research and development on medical products to deal with the disease, along with collaborative research efforts to advance this vital R&D. “In recognition of our mutual reliance, coordination and alignment of regulatory and manufacturing processes and quality standards required to accelerate availability of reliable personal protective equipment, diagnostic testing devices, and medical treatment capacity.” The body also advocated support for the World Health Organisation in the ongoing effort to defeat COVID-19. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 