Tobi Aworinde, Abuja The heir to the British throne, Prince Charles, has described the death of the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, as “desperately sad news,” for which he sent his “deepest possible sympathy” to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the government and people of Nigeria. According to a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, Prince Charles regretted that the death of Kyari had occurred through “this pernicious virus.” The British royal said, “I can only begin to imagine what an immense gap Mr Kyari’s untimely death will leave in Your Excellency’s life and my heart goes to you and Mr Kyari’s family.” President Paul Kagame, the government and people of Rwanda, in a similar message through the Embassy of Rwanda in Abuja, extended their heartfelt condolences and used the opportunity “to express solidarity to the government and people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as we are faced with the COVID-19 global crisis.” Former Vice-President Namadi Sambo, in his message to Buhari, described the death of Abba Kyari as a “monumental national loss.” Industry leader and businessman, Abdulsamad Rabi’u, in a letter to the President, said he was deeply saddened by what he described as “this colossal loss.” He stated, “(Kyari) served the country and your administration with diligence and utmost loyalty. “He was deeply committed to the service of Nigeria and his efforts especially in ensuring the success of Your Excellency’s agriculture industry agenda did not go unnoticed. He was a beacon of loyalty and a patriot.” Others who sent condolence messages to Buhari were the Emir of Gazargamu, Ahmad Tijjani Ibn Saleh, from Yobe State; the Secretariat of the Developing D-8 Organisation for Economic Cooperation headquarters in Ankara, Turkey; retired Ambassador Jibrin Chinade; and the Emir of Hadejia, Jigawa State, Alhaji Adamu Maje. Former Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Emeka Nwogu; and a former Managing Director of the Guardian Newspapers, Eluem Emeka Izeze, also sent condolence messages to the President. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  