Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Are Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, has asked government at all levels to find a lasting solution to the menace of building collapse. Adams said many lives had been wasted due to the man-made problem of building collapse that had placed a demeaning question mark on the nation’s safety measures. He made this known in Lagos recently, noting that when people without sufficient knowledge in building construction were allowed to operate on sites, the result would be the unsatisfactory substandard building products that could endanger lives. According to him, the abnormal situation can be reversed  when builders, who are trained specifically for building construction are allowed to take their rightful position on sites. Adams, who explained that he acquired training in joinery, which enabled him to work as a skilled building artisan, enjoined the government to establish more technical colleges to train the youths that could be absorbed in the construction industry, thereby reducing youth unemployment and criminality. He also advised building artisans and professional builders to pay attention to details so as to add value to the skills required to produce admirable buildings. The National President of the Nigerian Institute of Building, Kunle Awobodu, stated that all well-meaning and patriotic Nigerians should join in the quest for standard building construction. He said with the thousands of professional builders and trained building artisans from the NIOB, the nation would soon be saved from the crisis of defective buildings. “Once the law, building regulations become effective, quackery and incompetence will be eradicated from building sites,” he said. Leaders of the various associations of building artisans in Lagos State that were with Awobodu at the forum lodged a complaint on the menace of ‘omo onile’ and area boys that were fond of violently disrupting work on building sites. Adams, in his response, reiterated the importance of educating the hoodlums and area boys on the adverse effects of disrupting work on concrete quality. He also commended Awobodu for his consistent campaign for standard building construction over the years and assured him that if such actions could be sustained, developers would change their attitude and embrace appropriate building construction process. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  