GBENGA ODOGUN The Nigerian Medical Association has condemned the alleged assault and rape of Kogi beauty queen, Elizabeth Oyeniyi, by the Kogi State Commissioner for Water Resources, Abdulmumuni Danga. The victim while narrating her ordeal to Dorothy Njemanze Foundation on a viral video said the commissioner abducted and battered her because she advised him to be responsible to his family members. Oyeniyi, said when she saw a photo of the commissioner distributing relief materials for Covid-19, she made a post on social media asking him to lend a helping hand to his sister who is her friend. A statement on Saturday by the Chairman, NMA National Committee on Gender Violence, Dr Godwin Tijani, decried the action describing it as a gross gender violation and abuse of office by the government’s official. ‘’The NMA condemns in a strong term the alleged human right abuse, assault and rape of Elizabeth Oyeniyi by the Kogi commissioner for water resources. Violence against women and girls is a grave violation of human rights. ‘’Its impact ranges from immediate to long-term multiple physical, sexual and mental consequences for women and girls, including death. It negatively affects the victim’s general well-being and prevents such women from fully participating in society. ‘’Violence not only has negative consequences for women but also their families, the community and country at large,’’ the statement indicated. The association called on the relevant law enforcement agencies to conduct thorough investigation into the allegations and ensure  justice delivery. The NMA also commended the coalition of human right civil society organisations for taking prompt action to ensure the victim get justice. He restated the commitment of NMA to partner government, civil society organisations and other institutions to stop violence against women and girl child. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      