Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on Tuesday said the emergency phase of Lassa fever outbreak for 2020 was over following decline in the number of cases in the country. A statement from the communication unit of the centre said it was however vital for Nigerians to observe strict hygiene protocol. The disease, according to the NCDC, has killed 188 in Nigeria between January 1 and April 5 this year. The statement read, “The NCDC has declared the emergency phase of the 2020 Lassa fever outbreak over. This is following successive decline in cases below the emergency threshold and an epidemiological review carried out by the NCDC and the World Health Organisation. “Our message to Nigerians remains to sustain the practice of good personal hygiene, that is, always wash your hands with soap and water, keep your environment clean and rodent-free to prevent the spread of Lassa fever. “On the 24th of January 2020, the NCDC declared a Lassa fever outbreak and activated a national Lassa fever Emergency Operations Centre. This was in response to an increase in Lassa fever cases at the beginning of the year, exceeding the threshold for an outbreak.” It added, “Since the beginning of the outbreak, 979 confirmed cases, including 188 deaths, have been recorded from 27 states, including the Federal Capital Territory as of 19th of April, 2020. The Lassa fever case count has significantly declined in the last three weeks and has now dropped below levels considered to be a national emergency.” The NCDC said that in the last four months, it had led the Lassa fever response activities across the country in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Environment and Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Response. The centre however warned that without a vaccine for the disease, Nigeria still remained at the risk of Lassa fever. “The NCDC recognises that in the absence of a vaccine, Nigeria remains at risk of Lassa fever cases. In the last two years, Nigeria has recorded Lassa fever cases throughout the year, with the peak usually between January and April.” Making reference to the Director General of the NCDC, the statement said although Nigeria had crossed the emergency phase, cases would continue to be recorded. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  