Tunde Ajaja  and Femi Makinde Residents of Lagos State and its environs have expressed concern over the rising cost of garri and other staples following the lockdown imposed by the Federal Government to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country. Across major markets visited by our correspondents, prices of bread, garri and other staples like beans and semolina have increased, due to what the sellers tied to uncertainty about the impact of the raging COVID-19 pandemic on food security. In most markets, the price of garri, which seems to be the worst hit, has increased from N600 for a paint bucket size to about N1,300. The price of brown beans, which has a higher demand, increased from about N1,100 to N1,400, while the price of white beans that is of lower demand, remained at N1,000 for a paint bucket size. Also, the prices of different packages of semolina and wheat flour have increased by N50 each as the sellers warned that the prices might continue to rise if the lockdown persisted. Bread, which is a common staple in many Nigerian homes, is also not spared as the price has increased by N50. Some consumers who spoke to our correspondents lamented that staying at home had forced them to eat more frequently but that the hike in prices of food items would worsen the hardship occasioned by the lockdown. A middle-aged civil servant, who identified herself as Mrs Bejide Felicia, told one of our correspondents at the mini-market on Obafalabi Street, Ojodu, that the stay-at-home order had made their food consumption to double, which depleted their reserve swiftly. She said, “When the President announced the lockdown on March 29 and we were able to do some shopping the following day till 11pm when the lockdown began, we bought many things, based on our financial capacity. But now, we have almost finished all we had, especially when you have children at home. And we never knew it would be extended. “On getting to the market to restock, I was surprised to see the increase in prices of foodstuffs now, especially garri. The price has doubled. Likewise, the prices of other food items has increased. I have to cut the quantity of what I planned to buy and that means we have to ration, especially when the palliatives from the government do not get to us.” Among many consumers who spoke to our correspondents at the popular Ogba market, Mrs Nkechi Eze said she could hardly believe the hike in the price of garri within the last two weeks she was in the market. “I’m shocked. Is it that they don’t want us to eat or they want us to die of hunger? The price of garri has doubled and you know it’s a preferred meal for many, whether you drink it when soaked or you make eba. Government has to do something because now that we can’t go out, we have to eat and we have children at home.” At Agbado and Ota markets in Ogun State, consumers also lamented the prices of food items, especially staples. A female lawyer, Gbemisola Balogun, also told Sunday PUNCH  that prices of foodstuffs, especially garri had gone up astronomically since the lockdown started. She said, “I bought some foodstuffs before the lockdown started but their prices have gone up now. The cost of  paint bucket of garri ranges between N1,100 and N1,300. One tin (derrica)  of ogbono seed which cost N800 is now N1,400.   Yam is very expensive now depending on the size of the tuber. I bought a tuber for N1,800 on Thursday.” Meanwhile, when asked the reason for the hike in food prices, some sellers of staples in Ojodu tied it to the lockdown and the inability of the suppliers to bring in fresh stock. One of them, who identified himself as Chidi, said, “The hike in the prices of foodstuffs now is a reflection of the drop in supply and of course the rise in demand. When we asked them, they said it’s because they didn’t know when they would get another stock and that even when they go to bring in foodstuffs, policemen often disturb them on the road and all the money we use in bribing them would have to reflect on the prices.” The President of All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Kabir Ibrahim, told Sunday PUNCH on the telephone that the hike in prices of commodities was not limited to agricultural produce alone.      He said, “Prices of foodstuffs have gone up because the supply is very low and the demand is very high at this time. Borders have been closed and nothing is coming into the country, everybody now depends on what we produce locally. “It is still marginal now, we are not yet supposed to cry. Things may be terrible by next year if we do not make efforts to increase our food production capacity. Unless we upscale our production, we might not be able to meet the level of demand “But the President in his last address asked us to mention where we need help. We have told the government that we need improved seedlings and should be readily available. We also said we want inputs to be available.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  