Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command has arrested two police personnel, Assistant Superintendent of Police Adebayo Ojo and Sergeant Mojisola Adeleke, for allegedly extorting a woman in the Agbowa area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Thursday that the victim had in a trending video on the social media, accused the cops of extorting money from her after impounding her vehicle. He stated that the cops had been arrested after the footage was analysed, but urged the victim to report at the command headquarters in Ikeja as the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered an investigation into the case. Elkana stated, “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a video on the social media in which a lady alleged that her vehicle was impounded by the Divisional Traffic Officer for the Agbowa Division and a female sergeant. She equally accused the officers of extorting money from her. After analysing the video, the officers mentioned were identified by our operatives and arrested. READ ALSO: Enugu police on lockdown duty extorting money from us –Residents “They are Assistant Superintendent of Police, Adebayo Ojo, and Sergeant Mojisola Adeleke. “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered an in-depth investigation into the case. While appreciating the courage of the complainant and other well-meaning citizens, who forwarded the video to our social media page, the command urges the complainant to take a step further by reporting to the command headquarters in Ikeja to enable the command conclude the investigation.” Elkana noted that Odumosu reaffirmed his stance against corrupt practices and impunity, adding that members of the public would be updated on the outcome of the investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.