Adelani Adepegba and Tobi Aworinde following the upsurge in criminal activities in some communities in Lagos and Ogun states, the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the immediate deployment of additional intelligence and operatives to strengthen security and bolster public confidence in the affected areas. They include the Police Mobile Force, Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, Intelligence Response Team and the Special Tactical Squad. Suspected hoodlums had reportedly taken advantage of the COVID-19 lockdown in the two states to break into shops and burgle homes in Aiyede, Ota, Ogun State and in the Agege and Agbado areas of Lagos State. The Force spokesman, DCP Frank Mba, who disclosed this in a statement in Abuja on Monday, said, “A total of 191 suspects have been arrested in Lagos and Ogun states in connection with the incidents. Fifteen locally-made guns, 52 live cartridges, 42 cutlasses and axes and a large quantity of weeds suspected to be marijuana have been recovered from the hoodlums by the police teams in the Agbado, Ifo, Ota and Agege axis.” The statement explained that the police intervention team was being coordinated by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Peter Ogunyanwo, who is in charge of the Department of Research and Planning of the Force and the coordinating DIG for the South-West geopolitical zone. “He is to immediately oversee the deployments of these additional assets to enhance public safety, public confidence and general security in the two states. “DIG Ogunyanwo can be reached through 0803 389 3226. The Control Room numbers for Lagos Command are 08127155132, 08065154338 and 07055462708 while that of Ogun Command are 08081770416 and 08081770419,” the police said. The IG also ordered the state commissioners of police across the country to immediately rejig the security architecture in their various commands to tackle all emerging crimes associated with the COVID-19 lockdown. Meanwhile, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, on Monday, met with the intelligence and security agencies to review the security strategy on the enforcement of the lockdown. The Chairman of the task force and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, disclosed this while speaking with journalists at a press conference in Abuja. Responding to a question on robbery attacks in Lagos and Ogun, Mustapha said, “This morning, we had a meeting with the intelligence and security community to review our strategies, going forward. We’ve received those reports. I’ve seen some of the clips on social media. “I even spoke with the governor of Lagos this afternoon. They have been holding their security meetings and consulting because every governor is a chief security officer of his state.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com