Tobi Aworinde, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday met with Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo to discuss measures to further ease the effects of the coronavirus pandemic on Nigerians. Osinbajo, who spoke with journalists after the meeting with the President in his office, said he compared notes with Buhari on what more could be done for the poor and the vulnerable amid the restrictions to tackle the spread of COVID-19 in the country. As part of the country’s national response strategy towards alleviating the suffering of Nigerians amid the pandemic, Buhari had set up the Economic Sustainability Committee and appointed the vice-president. Osinbajo stated that the meeting was centered on ways to cushion the harsh effects of restrictions on the poor. According to him, discussions at the meeting are on how to resolve some of the pressing issues around COVID-19, particularly on the economy. The vice-president added that full reports on the committee containing thoughts and ideas of members on the best way forward for Nigeria would soon be submitted to the President. He said, “I came to brief Mr President as usual, (like) the regular briefing I give. Sometimes, I come physically as you see me today; other times I brief him on the phone or by conference. “What we are concerned about is how to ensure that the economy remains stable, jobs are protected and if possible, more jobs are created. The President has expressed much concern about the problems that may be associated with the lockdown. Many of our people work for daily wage; they have to go out for work every day. “So, we have to think about how to give them some succour during the period when they are not able to work. So, some of these are the issues Mr President wanted me to discuss fully with him.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 