Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The police in Ebonyi State have arrested a 75-year-old grandmother for allegedly flogging and pouring pepper into the eyes and private parts of her 11-year-old home help. The woman, who gave her name as Mrs Comfort Obi, was arrested by the personnel of the Ekumenyi Police Station in Abakaliki on Tuesday. The septuagenarian’s action, PUNCH Metro gathered, was reported at the police station by a neighbour, Mr Osita Ezechukwu, who could no longer bear the level of abuse the child was being subjected to. “The suspect had been cautioned repeatedly to desist from torturing the girl. Apart from flogging her, the woman also subjects the girl to hard labour,” Ezechukwu stated. PUNCH Metro learnt that the victim’s body bore the scars of repeated flogging by Obi. It was learnt that the victim, who hails from the  Ohaji Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State, was brought by her aunt to live with the septuagenarian on Gunning Road, Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, 12 months ago. Investigation revealed that the victim’s mother was dead and her four siblings currently live with their father, who has vision impairment. READ ALSO: Aggrieved Chinese firm’s workers vandalise, burn company’s vehicles “My madam usually invites touts to flog me whenever I commit any offence and pour pepper into my private parts and eyes. This latest incident was because I was hungry and I took her biscuits and fruit juice,” the victim said. Obi, however, said, “Although I regret my actions, I sought the permission of the girl’s auntie before I poured pepper into her private parts and eyes.” The state police command confirmed the incident and Obi’s arrest on Wednesday. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mrs Loveth Odah, said the suspect had been arrested and admitted to bail. “The child has been treated and reunited with her family members. The suspect will be arraigned after the fight against COVID-19 is over,” she stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com