Umar Muhammed, Lafia Following the persistence of communal clashes that have claimed thousands of lives and property, Benue and Taraba states have agreed to the deployment of troops along the boundary communities of the two states. This was contained in a communique that was read by the Deputy Governor of Taraba State, Mr Haruna Manu, at the end of the joint peace security meeting between Benue and Taraba states on Jukun/Tiv crisis at the Government House, Nasarawa, on Tuesday. The communique was signed by Haruna Manu, the Deputy Governor of Benue State, Benson Abounu; and the Deputy Governor of Nasarawa State, Dr Emmanuel Akabe. The communique called for the deployment of security forces that would checkmate the excesses of criminals and enforce law and order to allow the Internally Displaced Persons to return to their homes. The peace security meeting, which was at instance of Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State was to enable him to intervene and find a lasting solution to unabated communal clashes between Benue and Taraba states. The communique called for the cessation of hostilities from all parties to pave the way for the return of IDPs, urging Benue and Taraba state governments to identify and arrest militia groups believed to be residing in the two states and hand them over to security agencies. The communique also called on the Federal Government to ensure the demarcation of the boundary of the two states and facilitate the implementation of the resolutions jointly arrived at by the two state governments, saying this would go a long way in addressing the lingering crisis permanently. “The governors of the two states should meet with traditional rulers in the front line communities and sensititize them on the need to live in peace,” it added. Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State, his deputy, Dr Emmanuel Akabe were in attendance during the peace security meeting. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     