Adeniyi Olugbemi, Sokoto Sokoto State executive council has approved the immediate increment of hazard allowance of the state’s health workers by 100 per cent for the months of April and May. Briefing newsmen after the state executive council meeting held at the Government House, the Commissioner for Health, Dr Ali Inamme, further disclosed that other health workers in the frontline of the COVID-19 in the state would in addition be given weekly allowance. Also speaking, the state Commissioner for Finance, Abdulsamad Dasuki, explained that the state executive council also approved the downward review of the 2020 budget. He said, “The council has in response to the global challenges, agreed to review the budget down from the initial N292bn to N153bn.” He also disclosed that all the state tertiary institutions would henceforth be entitled to 60 per cent of their revenue while the remaining 40 per cent would be credited to the state government. In the same vein, the State Commissioner for Water Resources, Umar Bature, said the state government had approved the suspension of water rate for the month of April and May across the state. He said the measure was part of palliatives put in place to cushion the effects of lockdown order to curtail the spread of the pandemic in the state. On his part, the state Commissioner for Information, Isa Galadanci, disclosed that the state executive council had  revoked the contract award for  the construction of the deputy governor’s official residence. He explained that the contract was awarded at the cost of N454m while N245m had already been paid to the contractor. Galadanci said the contractor had however absconded from the site for over a year with only 35 per cent completion work done. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  