Chima Azubuike, Gombe Gombe State Commissioner for Finance and Economic Development, Muhammad Magaji, has said one way the state intends to mitigate the current economic turnaround is to reduce recurrent expenditure in order to save cost and make funds available for projects. Magaji said this in an interview with journalists in Gombe on Monday. He said, “For us in Gombe, we have started to look at our budget for 2020 and are already in the process of reviewing it to reflect the changes that have already been adopted by the Federal Government. “Our budget should also reflect the reality, so that we capture correctly what we expect as revenue from federal allocation and that, of course, translates to a reduction in the overall revenues accruable to the state.” Magaji said the decision to suspend the N30,000 minimum wage, was taken after due consultation with labour leaders. He also said the salaries of all political appointees was equally reviewed downwards as part of the measures to mitigate the economic impact of COVID-19. The commissioner said the worst days were yet to be seen but “we begin to plan ahead for those months that will be extremely difficult. “As a responsible government, we will try to ensure that we are able to meet our obligations within these periods. “The suspension of the new minimum wage implementation was a painful decision for the governor but the current administration acted in good faith after due consultation with labour leaders. “Interestingly, since assumption of office, Governor Inuwa Yahaya, has shown commitment to workers’ welfare as can be attested to in prompt payment of salaries, clearing of outstanding wages, including those of members of staff of state-owned higher institutions, taking over full payment of higher institutions’ staff salaries and payment of backlog of gratuity to state retirees.” Magaji added that the process of reviewing the 2020 budget was ongoing but priority projects such as roads, education, health, rural development and others would continue to receive priority attention. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com