Johnson Okafor The capital market community has launched an initiative with the aim of raising N1bn within the shortest time possible in a bid to support the fight against COVID-19 and its impact on the Nigerian economy. This was stated by the acting Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Ms Mary Uduk, in Abuja, on Tuesday. She said the funds would assist in cushioning the effects of the pandemic on poor and venerable Nigerians as well as providing some critical medical supplies. She said, “The committee has commenced work and has set a target to raise the sum of N1bn from market participants and stakeholders within the shortest time possible. “The money will be used to provide palliatives to the impoverished and medical equipment to designated hospitals and isolation centres.” While acknowledging ongoing efforts at providing critical medical supplies and palliatives to Nigerians, Uduk stated that the Nigerian capital market community recognised that more still needed to be done, especially for the vulnerable and underprivileged in the society. She said, “To this end, the Nigerian capital market community, led by the Securities and Exchange Commission, on Thursday, April 16, 2020, inaugurated a market-wide committee, the Capital Market Support Committee on COVID-19, to coordinate the capital market community’s effort in mitigating the medical and economic impact of the pandemic on the vulnerable and the underprivileged. “This is a challenging time for everyone and the capital market community cannot afford to stay on the sidelines in the fight against COVID-19. We urge fellow Nigerians to continue to take all necessary safety precautions and abide by all directives issued by the Federal Government and its relevant agencies. Together, we will overcome this pandemic.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.