What is your educational background? I have a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from the University of Uyo. I attended Spring Children’s School, Lagos, for my elementary education and proceeded to Lagos State Model College, Kankan, Badagry, Lagos, for my secondary education. Do you have any corporate work experience? Yes, I do. I once worked with Coronation Merchant Bank, and Midwestern Oil and Gas. Tell me about your company? Tidy by Udy is a cleaning outfit and our services include home cleaning, office cleaning, fumigation, and dry cleaning. We also supply cleaning materials and recruit cleaners in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Uyo. How long have you been in business? The company was founded on February 14, 2019. What motivated you to start your own business? Jeff Bezos (CEO of Amazon) once said, “People do not want gadgets, they want services”, so I was inspired to start up a business that would render services while I get paid; just like Jeff. What are your most significant accomplishments in the business? My customers’ satisfaction matters a lot to me. They commend me on jobs well done and refer me to others. What is your concept of a clean house? A house should be put in good shape because cleanliness is next to godliness. How do you handle the stress that comes with your job? As an entrepreneur, one has to be stubbornly unyielding with the mindset that there is no stress one cannot handle. What are the major challenges you’ve faced? People often leave valuable properties in my custody, so I have to always be on the ground with my workers and I have to get proper information about my workers. That is time-consuming and stressful. What do you consider to be your greatest strengths? My greatest strength is that I’m goal-driven and can work under pressure What do you consider to be your weaknesses? I am too detail-oriented and it is a big deal for my workers How do you get customers? I get customers through social media advertisements. And most times, through referrals. How profitable is the business? It is encouraging. I am able to pay my workers and still make profit What other skills do you possess? I love entertainment. I am a former beauty queen and I love modelling. Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years? My aspiration is to make the Forbes’ list of billionaires. I intend to have an international holding company with several subsidiaries. Considering that most parents want their children to concentrate fully on education, do you think there is any hope for entrepreneurship? Yes, I do. School is essential and as an economist, I learnt a lot about being an entrepreneur. It is easy for me to make certain decisions now. Do you have any employees? Currently, I have eight permanent staff members and 15 staff members on ad-hoc basis. What’s the most influential factor in your business success? Customer research, which makes my work easier. If you had one piece of advice to someone just starting out, what would it be? The key to becoming a successful entrepreneur is consistency. One also has to be patient. What are your hobbies and interests? I love travelling and I am interested in politics. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  