Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a teenager, Ayomide Joseph, and one Olajide Ajisomo, 20, for allegedly robbing two persons at gunpoint. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, stated this in a statement on Tuesday. Oyeyemi said the suspects allegedly dispossessed two siblings of their belongings at Mowe in the Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of the state. He said the suspects were arrested following a report lodged at the Mowe Police Station by one of the victims, Adegoke Sodipe. The PPRO explained that Adegoke reported that while he and his sibling were coming from Lagos, they were attacked at the Ikugbonmire junction, Mowe, by three armed men and were dispossessed of their belongings. Oyeyemi said the victims claimed that they were dispossessed of their Infinix phone valued at N25,000, Automated Teller Machine card  and So-safe Corps identity card. The PPRO said, “Adegoke stated further that he and his brother raised the alarm, which attracted passers-by and one of the hoodlums was apprehended by members of the public. “Upon the report, the DPO, Mowe Division, SP Marvis Jayeola, quickly dispatched his detectives to the scene, where the arrested member of the gang was handed over to the police. “Having taken possession of the suspect, the operatives embarked on intelligence-based investigation, which led to the arrest of the second suspect.” The PPRO added that a locally-made double-barrelled shot gun was recovered from the suspects. He said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered that the suspects be transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad for discreet investigation. Oyeyemi stated that the CP also reiterated the readiness of the command to clamp down on would-be criminals in the state. “The command will not allow any hoodlum to subject the good people of the state to any form of mental and psychological torture during and after this trying period,” the PPRO added. ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.