Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe and Deji Lambo The Agege Local Government Council of Lagos State, on Thursday, sealed off the Agege Central Mosque for violating the ban on the gathering of more than 25 persons at a time and attacking enforcement officers. PUNCH Metro had reported that worshippers in the mosque, on Tuesday, attacked personnel of the Lagos State COVID-19 Task Force, who were enforcing the lockdown ordered by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Officers of the task force were attacked by some Muslim faithful observing the Solatul Ishal prayer inside the mosque. The worshippers, numbering about 300, were said to have rushed out of the mosque and started hurling missiles at the task force’s patrol vehicle and physically attacked the officers. Reacting to the incident, the local government fumigated the mosque and sealed it off. The Chairman, Agege Local Government Council, Ganiyu Egunjobi, stated that the shutdown of the mosque was necessary to avert a recurrence of the attack and serve as a deterrent to other errant faith groups and adherents. He said, “We cannot continue to condone acts capable of spreading this dreadful disease. Even Saudi Arabia placed restrictions on the number of people, who must worship in the two holy mosques, Haram and Nabawi, and banned congregational prayers in all other mosques across the country. Honestly speaking, we cannot be more Roman than the Romans. READ ALSO: Atiku denies plans to hand over cash to Nigerians “We have had engagement with the leadership of the mosque, including the Sarkin Hausawa, Musa Muhammed, and our resolution is that it should be shut down until further notice.” When one of our correspondents visited the mosque on Thursday, it was observed that it had been shut, but some men from the northern part of the country were seen hanging around the premises. Personnel of the Lagos State Police Command were also seen patrolling the street in a bid forestall a breakdown of law and order. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  