Angela Onwuzoo Indications have emerged that while the coronavirus pandemic presents a difficult situation globally, counterfeiters have used the situation to enrich themselves. Against the safety of frontline health workers and wellbeing of the general public in the fight against COVID-19, criminals and counterfeiters have engaged in the sale and distribution of fake and substandard pharmaceutical products, especially Personal Protective Equipment such as face masks, sanitisers and gloves; as well as test kits, drugs and food products. This is contained in a report released on Friday by The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation, EUROPOL. The report raised the alarm that if not checked, the criminals’ activities could expose health workers to coronavirus as they unwittingly use fake and substandard medical product, especially PPE, test kits, disposable latex gloves and face masks; while members of the public being treated with the fake drugs risk morbidity or mortality. The 17-page report, titled, ‘Viral marketing of counterfeits, substandard goods and intellectual property crime in the COVID-19 pandemic,’ revealed that criminals and counterfeiters cash in on the shortage of genuine pharmaceutical products to expand their illegal enterprise. “Criminals have been quick to adapt their product portfolios to exploit shortages of genuine products, such that a high volume of the products used in the fight against COVID-19 are mostly substandard,” the report warned. Other products currently in high demand in the fight against COVID-19 that are being faked, according to the report, are hand sanitisers, disinfectants, alcohol-based gels, soaps, and disinfectant cleaning wipes, among others. For drugs, the report listed antivirals, medications for arthritis, antimalarials and herbal remedies as those that are being faked and distributed by the counterfeiters and criminals. Citing examples of activities of counterfeiters, EUROPOL noted that the French law enforcement authorities had identified several websites offering the sale of COVID-19 blood spot screening tests, which claimed to be able to deliver a result within two minutes. The report also confirmed the counterfeiting of chloroquine, which had shown some promise as treatment for COVID-19. “Most of these offers were made online. An analysis of the websites and companies offering suspected counterfeit chloroquine revealed recurrences in the telephone numbers used to advertise, almost all had the dialling code of the United States,” the report added. The report further noted that some of the counterfeit products being distributed globally put at risk the lives and safety of frontline workers in healthcare and other essential sectors in the fight against COVID-19. “Prices for those products vary and may be higher or lower than the price of similar items in physical markets, depending on demand or the desire of vendors to attract new customers,” the report added. Worse still, the report noted, is that food and vitamin supplements are also faked. “Food and vitamin supplements are also counterfeited or may contain harmful ingredients. To continue reading this story and more, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  