Enyioha Opara, Minna The Police in Niger State have apprehended two suspected cattle thieves said to have been terrorising the Fulani Camp, Ekun village, in the Paiko Local Government Area of the state. The suspects, Jibrin Sabo and Suleiman Abdulkadir, were trailed and arrested by a team of policemen attached to the Paiko Division following a tip-off. It was learnt that Sabo was seen at Ekun village in Paiko with one of his accomplices, Abdulkadir, who was helping him to treat his bullet wounds. PUNCH Metro gathered that Sabo had conspired with his gang members, Bala and Aliyu, both from Kwakuti village and now at large, to rustle cows from the camp of one Alhaji Monori of Bonu village in the Gurara Local Government Area of the state, but were overpowered by vigilantes, and in the process, Bala was shot in the leg, while the others fled. It was learnt that the suspects had been terrorising the community for the past four years, making the residents to live in fear. One of the suspects, Sabo, told our correspondent that his gang usually dispossess people of their valuables, apart from stealing cows. “At times when there are no cows to steal, we resort to dispossessing innocent residents of their valuables and cash just to survive. Things are really tough in the country; everybody is looking for of survival and we must put food on our table,” he explained. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Wasiu Abiodun, confirmed the incident on Wednesday. He stated, “We are reducing criminality to the barest minimum in Niger State and we urge the people to always report any suspicious person to the nearest police station. “Niger State is one of the most peaceful states in the country and we will resist any attempt by hoodlums to take over the state. It will not work; our men are intact and ready for any eventuality.” The Police spokesman said investigation into the incident was ongoing, adding that the suspects would be arraigned after investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 