Tony Okafor, Awka No fewer than 17 persons escaped death on Sunday in Onitsha, Anambra State, when a truck loaded with iron rods rammed into 10 vehicles. The crash, which occurred close to the Niger Bridgehead, involved 11 vehicles, including two police patrol vans. The crash reportedly occurred when a Mack truck with number plate JJT 887 XG suffered brake failure and rammed into 10 vehicles. Though no life was lost, PUNCH Metro gathered that 17 persons were involved in the crash. The Public Education Officer, Federal Road Safety Corps in the state, Pascal Anigbo, confirmed the accident to our correspondent. He said 17 persons, comprising 15 males and two females, were involved in the crash, adding that no death or injury was recorded in the accident. Anigbo stated, “The vehicles involved included a Mercedes Benz 911 truck with number plate XT 492 ENU, two police IVM-065 vans, a Mercedes Benz truck with number plate AJL 358 XA, a J5 bus with number plate AAH 697 ZV and a Skygo tricycle without number plate. “Others were a Toyota Hiace with number plate JJJ 855 XD, a Lexus RX350 SUV with number plate APP 149 FH, a Toyota Hiace bus with number plate KSF 180 XU and a Toyota Hiace with number plate 114 YQ.” He said obstructions resulting from the accident had been cleared by the FRSC operatives from the Onitsha Unit Command. He noted that the truck that caused the crash had been impounded by the Bridgehead Police Station. Anigbo added, “The Sector Commander, Andrew Kumapayi, advises all to stay at home to observe the lockdown, which has been put in place to curb the spread of COVID-19. “He reiterates the directive that any vehicle without authorisation or that does not render essential services will be impounded and the occupants prosecuted.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.