Dayo Ojerinde Resident doctors at the Ladoke Akintola University Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso, Oyo State have urged the state government to insure health workers in the state and make Personal Protective Equipment available in the discharge of their duties. According to a statement signed my the LAUTECH ARD President and Secretary, Dr Abraham Akinbola and Dr Abubakar Usman, the doctors said the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the state’s low level of preparedness for infectious disease outbreaks. “There is a gross inadequate supply of Personal Protective Equipment including face masks, sanitisers, disposable gowns, and Hazmat suits in most government hospitals within the state including LTH Ogbomoso. The isolation centre in LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso has the capacity to admit only three patients. “There is no comprehensive insurance policy to protect health workers in state health institutions. The coordination of activities by the COVID-19 team can be improved upon by collaborating with Oyo state NMA, LTH Ogbomoso and other government hospitals outside the state capital for an effective response towards defeating the scourge of COVID-19 across the state,” the statement reads. The doctors, therefore, urged the state government to address the issue pay disparity among health workers in the state. “The Isolation Centre at LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso should be upgraded to accommodate more patients while adequate arrangement is made to improve the manpower of the hospital. “The Virology Laboratory in the College of Health Sciences LTH Ogbomoso should be upgraded to Biosafety level 3 alongside with appropriate personnel so as to help Oyo state government, NCDC and WHO in the fight against this pandemic,” the statement reads. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  