Sunday Nwakanma, Umuahia Abia State Government says it has not received any funds from the Federal Government’s Social Investment Fund. According to the state Commissioner for Information, John Okiyi Kalu, all the palliative measures in the state were state projects. “Our state has also not received any money from the Social Investment Fund as we are among the four states yet to benefit. “All the palliative food distribution done in Abia State as well as the construction of new isolation centres are projects of Abia State Government led by Dr Okezie Ikpeazu,” he said and urged for the disregard of what he called “sponsored lies and propaganda from those who live by propaganda”, Okiyi said. He continued, “It is also not true that NCDC is constructing the new isolation centre in Ogbor Hill, Aba. That project is 100 per cent funded by Abia State Government and we hope to hand over the facility to Abia State University Teaching Hospital afterwards. No single living Abian is contributing one kobo to the construction and equipping of the new isolation centre. It is the same for the others previously readied by the administration. “Abia State Government is investing all the resources required in preparing our isolation centres, provision of PPEs, ventilators, etc for the safety and protection of our people against coronavirus. “No single grain of rice or any other food stuff has been received by the state from the Federal Government as rumoured by same propagandists. Abia State Government procured the rice and other foodstuffs distributed to the needy through the churches and added the 850 bags of rice donated by Prof Greg Ibe. So far, we have procured more than 8,000 bags of 50kg rice and other items such as beans, yam, face masks, hand sanitisers etc. We have also distributed the 2,000 cartons of noodles donated by our brother Chrisnak.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.