Tobi Aworinde, Abuja The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has made exemption for the movement of fertilisers within the 14-day lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Federal Capital Territory. It also recommended a 300-bed-space limit for isolation centres in states and local government areas. The Chairman of the task force and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, who spoke during a briefing of the task force in Abuja on Thursday, said the implementation of the lockdown order in Ogun and Lagos states as well as the Federal Capital Territory was taking shape. Mustapha emphasised that the restrictive measure was not punitive, adding that the government was conscious of the well-being of all Nigerians. He said, “In order not to disrupt the economy and particularly the supply of power to our homes, government has already exempted the essential staff of companies in the upstream oil and gas sector from the restrictions and exempted further the movement of fertiliser and related items so that we can have our agricultural economy working. “This is all in order to facilitate availability of gas to fire the turbines that generate power for the supply in our homes and to ensure that our farmers have fertilisers and other necessary components as the farming season is about to begin.” The SGF stated that it was important for states, whether in the frontline where cases had been recorded or where cases had not been reported yet, to intensify the preparation of facilities that would help in the event of a surge. He stated that training of personnel in the management of the facilities was also a critical factor to the success of government’s strategy, adding that the PTF “shall intensify consultations with the governors and other state agencies to achieve the much-needed collaboration.” Mustapha said, “In furtherance of this consultation, we are requesting that the sub-national governments should provide at least a 300-bed facility, either a hotel or other facilities that are available to them with options and graded in different categories so that they provide a place where they can provide basic nursing and other required procedures before patients are moved into the isolation centres, the teaching hospitals or any other health facilities.” He noted that, in the interest of humanity and the nation, the PTF appealed to every Nigerian to take the exercise seriously by obeying all protocols and measures put in place. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  