Peter Dada, Akure The four suspected killers of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, the daughter of the Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, have been arraigned before a magistrates’ court in Akure, the Ondo State capital. The four defendants, Muhammed Shehu,  26; Mazaje Lawal, 40; Adamu Adamu, 60 and Awalu Abubakar, 25 were  arrested two weeks ago by the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, nine months after the deceased was killed along the Benin-Sagamu Expressway at Ore in the Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. The defendants were arraigned on Friday on three counts of conspiracy, kidnapping and murder. The charge sheet read in part, “That you, Mohammed Shehu, Mazaje Lawal, Adamu Adamu, and Awalu Abubakar and others now at large on or before July 12, 2019 about 9am, at Tollgate, along Ore/Ijebu Ode Expressway, within the jurisdiction of this court, did murder one Olufunke Olakunrin (Nee Fasoranti), aged 58 years, contrary to and punishable under Section 316 of the Criminal Code, Cap 37, Vol. 1, Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006. “That you, Mohammed Shehu,  Mazaje Lawal, Adamu Adamu, and Awalu Abubakar and others now at large on or before July 12, 2019, about 9am, at Tollgate, along Ore/ljebu Ode Expressway, within the jurisdiction of this court, did murder one Ogunbiyi Matthew, aged 65 years, contrary to and punishable under Section 316 of the Criminal code, Cap36, Vol. 1 Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006. “That you Mohammed Shehu,  Mazaje Lawal, Adamu Adamu, and Awalu Abubakar and others now at large on or before July 12, 2019, did kidnap one Gerald Igboayaka, thereby committing an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 3(ii) (b) of the Ondo State Anti-Kidnapping and Anti-Abduction Law, 2010.” The defendants who had no representation in court, however pleaded not guilty to all the charges. The state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Kola Olawoye, who represented the state, announced to the court that the state was ready to take over the case. The counsel asked the court to remand the four defendants in prison and allow the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control to first conduct COVID -19 test on them before moving them to the Owo Correctional centre. The presiding magistrate, Mrs Victoria Bob -Manuel, granted the prayers of the counsel. The court, however, declared that it lacked the jurisdiction and power to try the defendants. The case was adjourned till June 3, 2020, for advice from the office of the Director of Public Prosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.