John Alechenu The National Legal Adviser of the All Progressives Congress, Babatunde Ogala, has said the party has not been served any court order barring it from appointing former Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, as its Deputy National Chairman (South). Ogala gave this clarification via a text message in response to inquiries from Sunday PUNCH, on Friday. This came amidst reports that the party gave recognition to the ex-governor as its deputy national chairman in contravention of a subsisting court order restraining it from doing so. When our correspondent sought to know from the APC national legal adviser if the party had been served an order of the court restraining it from appointing or recognising Ajimobi into the then vacant office of deputy national chairman (South), he replied “No”. A chieftain of the party, Mr Michael Akinleye, had filed a suit challenging the eligibility and appointment of former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, as the APC Deputy National Chairman (South), before a Federal High Court in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State. Akinyele, who showed interest in contesting the position, filed the suit with registration number FHC/AD/C8/8/2020 to challenge the decision of the APC National Working Committee to appoint Ajimobi allegedly without recourse to the provisions of the party’s constitution. Joined in the suit were the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole (1st respondent); National Working Committee (2nd); National Vice Chairman, South West(3rd); APC South West Zonal Caucus (4th); Ekiti State Chairman of APC (5th); Ekiti State Caucus of APC (6th), All Progressives Congress (7th) and Senator Abiola Ajimobi (8th). A Sokoto State High Court had on March 13, 2020, issued an interim injunction restraining the APC from appointing or electing officers into the party’s national leadership except through the national convention as proscribed by the APC constitution. The APC National Vice Chairman (North West), Inuwa Abdulkadir, had instituted the case, praying the court to grant the order to stop the party from appointing/electing the party’s National Publicity Secretary or any other person into the national executive outside of the provisions of the constitution. On the strength of this order, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, went on to announce himself as the acting National Publicity Secretary pending when the court order was vacated. However, the party’s National Legal Adviser dismissed the claims insisting the party had no such order in its possession. When Sunday PUNCH inquired from the APCs National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu what was being done by the party to deal with the wave of conflicting judicial pronouncements with regards to the party’s affairs, he said resolving the COVID-19 debacle was uppermost in the minds of the party and its leadership at the moment. Issa-Onilu said, “As a party, our main focus now is how to support the Federal Government and by extension the whole of Nigeria succeed in overcoming the challenge posed to our existence by the coronavirus pandemic. “We need to come up with strategies on how to better support government to achieve success in dealing with this health challenge that is a global one.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com