Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The Oyo State chapter of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria, has cautioned Governor Seyi Makinde against going ahead with the planned swearing in of caretaker committee secretaries. This warning was contained in a statement by its chairman, Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, in Ibadan, on Monday. The statement described the governor’s decision to swear in the local government caretaker committee secretaries as a clear disobedience to a subsisting court order. The statement read in part, “It has come to our attention at ALGON Oyo State, that the governor is not relenting in his disobedience to the judgment of the Supreme Court and the extant substantive judgment of the Oyo State High Court restraining governors from disbanding the elected council leadership and forbidding the appointment of caretaker committees for local councils. “It is very regrettable that despite these judgments and in spite of repeated warnings from ALGON and a strong advisory letter from the AGF for disobeying the Supreme Court, Governor Makinde continues with his trademark reckless disobedience. “We were informed that arrangements are now concluded for the swearing in of the caretaker committee members and secretaries across our local councils. In these financially hard times, Governor Makinde continues to balloon the state recurrent expenditure with 500 plus political appointees into caretaker committees of local governments. “Our isolation centres have no ventilators, and life is hard for the ordinary citizen, yet it is at this time Governor Makinde is creating illegal local government work for his PDP acolytes. Let no one be surprised if our dear state is unable to pay the April and future salaries in view of its misplaced spending priorities.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.