• Fire guts Lagos factory, one hospitalised Deji Lambo Six persons lost their lives on Tuesday when a Dangote Cement truck fell on a taxi on the Epe Bridge in Lagos State. The taxi, with number plate SMK 312S, was said to be conveying seven persons to a destination in the state when the tragedy struck. It was learnt that the truck crushed six of the commuters to death. One of the commuters, identified simply as Lekan, was said to have escaped death by a whisker. Footage of the rescue operation obtained by our correspondent showed emergency responders, including personnel of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, trying to rescue Lekan from the wreckage of the car. The footage also showed the remains of some of the victims being brought out from the crushed vehicle. A picture of the fallen truck was also seen. The Director-General, LASEMA, Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, who confirmed the incident, said the corpses had been deposited in a mortuary. He stated, “On arrival at the accident scene, a Dangote Cement’s Silo truck with unknown number plate was discovered to have fallen on a fully-loaded Opel taxi with number plate SMK 312 ES. “Preliminary report indicated that as of the time of reporting, a total of seven persons were trapped in the car, while six of them, unfortunately lost their lives. “The updated report had it that with the aid of LASEMA’s heavy-duty equipment, the emergency responders were able to extricate a male adult, Lekan, alive and he was handed over to the LASAMBUS crew on the ground. “A total of six male adults were recovered dead from under the truck and their corpses handed over to the Federal Road Safety Corps officials for onward transfer to the morgue. The truck was cleared off the road to a nearby lay-by.” Another crash involving an articulated truck was recorded around the Technical School on Awolowo Road in the Ota-Ona area of Ikorodu. PUNCH Metro gathered that while the containerised truck was on motion, it suddenly suffered brake failure and the driver lost control of the vehicle. Goods worth millions of naira were reportedly destroyed in the process. The Public Relations Officer, LASEMA, Nosa Okunbor, confirmed the lone accident in a statement on Wednesday, but stated that no life was lost. He said, “Another LASEMA response team recovered a containerised truck that was involved in a lone accident at the Technical School on Awolowo Road, Ota-Ona, Ikorodu, Lagos. “The preliminary report reveals that the articulated truck developed a mechanical fault while on motion and was involved in the lone accident. “The LASEMA response team promptly responded to the crash by the containerised truck with an unknown number plate after distress calls were received from the control room. “The cause of the crash was mechanic fault (propeller). The road has been cordoned off for the safety of vehicular activities. The LASEMA response team, LASTMA and personnel of the Nigeria Police were responders at the scene. “No life was lost, but goods worth a fortune were destroyed.” In another development, fire gutted the factory of the Mateco Slippers Company in Odogunyan in the Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area of the state. As of the time of filing this report, the cause of the inferno had yet to be ascertained, but raw materials used in the production of slippers were reportedly burnt. Okunbor said no life was lost, but a firefighter with the Lagos State Fire Service, identified simply as Ajenifuja, was choked by smoke at the scene and was taken to the Dasochris Private Hospital for treatment. Okunbor stated, “The LASEMA and other first responders extinguished the fire that broke out at the Mateco Slippers Company in Odogunyan, Ikorodu. “The cause of the fire cannot be ascertained. Officials of the LRT Lions Squad, Lagos State Fire Service, Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and the Sagamu Road Division of the Lagos State Police Command responded to the emergency. “No life was lost and no injury was sustained at the scene of the incident, but some of the raw materials used by the company were destroyed by the inferno. “The fire was extinguished by men of the Lagos State Fire Service and dampening down concluded. “Mr Ajenifuja, of the Lagos State Fire Service from the Odogunyan Division is recovering at the Dasochris Private Hospital. He choked from smoke inhalation at the scene of the fire.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   