Deji Lambo The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has described the creation of vigilante groups by youths in various communities during the lockdown as part of the principles of community policing by enabling residents to participate in safeguarding their communities. PUNCH Metro had reported that some Lagos residents had turned themselves into vigilantes in a bid to secure lives and property in the various communities that come under the threat of hoodlums, who had taken advantage of the lockdown to perpetrate different crimes. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Sunday that the vigilante groups must conduct themselves properly and ensure that their actions were in line with the community policing initiative and do not throw residents into panic as witnessed in the last few days. He stated that the CP, alongside other heads of security agencies, while on a confidence-building patrol across several areas in the state, reassured residents of the unwavering commitment of law enforcement agencies to protect lives and property in the state. Elkana said, “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, and heads of other security agencies in the state, including the army, air force, navy, the DSS, etc, embarked on confidence-building patrol and visited Ikeja, Mangoro, Iyana Ipaja, Agege, Dopemu, Ojodu, Berger, Ogba, Abattoir, Oshodi, Mushin, Lawanson, Surulere, Orile, Bode Thomas, Sabo, Ejigbo, Aguda, Ijesha, Okota, Festac, Ejigbo, Ikotun, Idimu, Agege, Ikotun, Igando, Mushin, Surulere, Festac, Kofo Abayomi, Ajah, Ilaje, Langbasa, Adeniji Adele, Ebute Ero, Apapa, Ajengule, Tolu, Amukoko, Ijora-Badia and Layeni, among other areas in the state. “The CP and other speakers, while addressing the residents, reassured them of the unwavering commitment of law enforcement agencies in the state to protect their lives and property. The CP also advised residents to shun rumour-mongering and spreading of fake news. “He described the rumour making the rounds on the social media that a gang of criminals known as the One Million Boys was planning to attack some communities in Lagos State as baseless and that the command, under his watch, had in the last four months incapacitated the gang and other criminal elements in the state with the arrest of over 800 suspects and the recovery of over 40 various categories of firearms. “The CP called on community leaders, traditional rulers, religious leaders, landlord associations, etc, to support the ongoing onslaught on criminal elements in the state. He urged parents and guardians to monitor the activities of their children and wards and ensure that they were not recruited into any criminal gang.” Elkana also said community leaders and landlord associations, among others, were tasked with the responsibility of vetting the youth to participate in policing their neighbourhoods, adding that their activities must be strictly monitored and controlled to avoid panic-spreading. He added, “On the spontaneous creation of vigilante groups by youths in various communities, the CP said it was one of the principles of community policing for citizens to participate in policing their local communities, but it had to be monitored and controlled by the police for quality assurance. “Such vigilante groups must conduct themselves in a way that their activities will not create more tension and panic, as witnessed in the manner some of them were in the last few days seen displaying weapons and burning tyres. Their conducts are creating more panic and in some instances, residents assume them to be armed robbers and gangsters. “To address this gap, community leaders and landlord associations, among others, are tasked with the responsibility of vetting the youth the communities trust enough to participate in policing their neighbourhoods. The Neighbourhoods Watch initiative must be strictly monitored and controlled.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.