Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Porsche says it is teaming up with auction house RM Sotheby’s to auction the last-ever 991-generation Porsche 911. The automaker says the speedster will be auctioned without reserve in an online-only bidding platform, starting on Wednesday April 15 (today) and ending on April 22. The car, a 911 speedster with the optional heritage design package, will be auctioned to benefit United Way Worldwide’s COVID-19 Community Response and Recovery Fund. United Way Worldwide is a private-funded non-profit group fighting for the health, education and financial stability of people. The speedster is basically a 911 GT3 with a funky convertible top which uses the GT3’s 500-horsepower 4.0-litre flat-six engine and capable of revving to the same 9,000 horsepower, says roadandtrack.com. “It also sends power to the rear wheels using a six-speed manual transmission. The heritage design package adds GT silver metallic paint with white stripes, “Porsche” decals along the sides, wheels finished in platinum satin, and Cognac leather inside,” the online auto journal says. It reports Porsche as saying the speedster, the final of 1948 units produced, has covered just 20 miles since it rolled off the factory line. Porsche says the winner of the auction will also receive a 911 speedster heritage design chronograph watch, which incorporates the same design features as the car itself. The Chief Executive Officer, Porsche Cars North America, Klaus Zellmer, says, “We are all profoundly affected by the current situation and the immediate impact it has on those most at risk in our communities. “United Way continues to step up to the plate and their response to this crisis has been quite impressive. So, we are proud to do our part. I also appreciate the swift support of RM Sotheby’s to make this possible and I am hopeful that the sale of a very special Porsche will help in a small way.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  