Tobi Aworinde,  Ted Odogwu,  Tunde Oyekola and Ada Wodu The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Thursday said it had commenced the decontamination of the Federal Capital Territory to curtail the spread of coronavirus. The Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammad Abubakar, who spoke during a live briefing of the task force in Abuja, also urged officials from the ministry to be alert as they might be mobilised to increase manpower. Abubakar said, “We are currently assembling about 300 additional community volunteers that can be trained quickly in terms of advocacy at the grass roots and counselling as appropriate, especially with regard to hygiene and sanitation. “Also, we have alerted some of our retired personnel; if there is need, we will reach out to them and see who we can get to come in and help.” C’River distributes  four million nose masks Meanwhile, the Governor of Cross River State, Prof. Ben Ayade, has begun the distribution of face/nose mask to residents of the state to contain the spread of COVID-19. Ayade also announced the release of two months’ salary advance which he said would provide succor to workers. He also said food would be made available to vulnerable families who lacked the capacity to provide two meals for their families. “I want you people to be afraid of the spread of the virus. It is only when you fear the virus, that is when you protect yourself from getting infected with the virus,” he said. Kano committee raises N353m Also, the Kano State Fund Raising Committee on Thursday, disclosed that it had raised N353m, which would be distributed to the vulnerable people in the state to cushion the effect of COVID-19. The committee chairman, Prof. Yahuza Bello, made the disclosure at a press conference on Thursday. He said hand sanitisers, fumigation equipment and foodstuffs were also donated by patriotic residents in the state. Bello added that  commissioners in Kano State, as well as other public office holders had donated 50 per cent of their April salaries to support the Federal Government’s battle against COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Kano State Ministry of Health said it had  received some food consignment donated by Jama’a and Ali Baba Foundation. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Aminu Tsanyawa, alongside the Director of Public Health, Disease and Control of the Ministry, Dr Idris Wada Bello, received the items, which included face masks, overall gowns and shields. Also, in fulfillment of the pledge made by the Dangote Group, Chairman, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, to establish 600-bed isolation centre at the Sani Abacha Stadium, in Kano, the equipment for the 600-bed Isolation Centre arrived the venue on Thursday. In a related development, the Kano State Government disclosed that the tests carried out on 22 out of the 25 suspected persons in the state tested negative, as confirmed by the Health Commissioner, Dr Aminu Tsanyawa, in Kano on Thursday. Kwara begins fumigation of markets However, the Kwara State Technical Committee on Coronavirus (COVID-19) on Thursday night started this fumigation of markets across the state. The fumigation, according to the Technical Committee on COVID-19 technical Committee took place between 7pm. and 11pm. A statement signed by Rafiu Ajakaye, spokesman for the committee said, “Fumigation is slated to begin across seven markets tonight (Thursday). These markets are Baboko Market; Oja Oba Market; Mandate Market; Ipata Market; Kulende Market; Ago Market; and Yoruba road Market.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 