Success Nwogu, Abuja A Kogi State indigene, Mr Simeon Abuh, whose 60-year-old wife, Salome, was burnt alive in Ochadamu, Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi State has called on the President, Maj.-Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.),  the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello and the Inspector-General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, to ensure the prosecution of his wife’s killers. The late Salome was burnt to death on November 18, 2019 by suspected political thugs. The then Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Hakeem Busari,  on December 10  paraded one Ocholi Edicha alongside five others, Adamu  Haruna, Onu  Egbunu, Musa Alidu, Attai Haruna, and Attah Ejeh at the state police headquarters in Lokoja. He said during the interrogation that Edicha confessed to have led the gang that burnt the house of Abuh, which led to Salome’s death. In an interview with our correspondent in Abuja on Friday, Abuh said it was shocking that about four months after his wife was killed, the suspects had not been prosecuted. He stated that the killing of his wife, who was a woman leader of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ochadamu, must not be swept under the carpet. He added that his late wife left behind four children, six grand-children, an aged mother and eight siblings. Abuh said, “It is sad and shocking that the suspects who killed my wife on November 18, two days after she voted during the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State, have not been prosecuted. “The suspects surrounded the house shooting indiscriminately, set the houses on fire, burnt my wife alive and razed four houses in our compound: five-bedroom (fully furnished), four-bedroom (fully furnished), and two two-bedrooms (fully furnished) while the fifth was made inhabitable. They accomplished their mission planned on Saturday, November 16, unknown to the peace-loving woman. “After that, the thugs headed to four other houses (up to half a kilometer away from our house) of known PDP stakeholders, looted and burnt down their houses too.’’ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  