James Abraham, Jos A resident of the Oureedam community in the Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State, Mr Moses Gata, who condemned the killing of a pastor and three others during a recent attack by gunmen in the neighbouring Ngbra Zongo community, said he was tortured by soldiers for speaking out on the incident. In condemning the gruesome murder of the victims, which occurred last Tuesday, Moses had reportedly blamed the attacks on the withdrawal of soldiers and other security agents in the community. Moses had said, “This is the second time that this community is experiencing bloody attacks within a space of two weeks. I believe that the withdrawal of soldiers from the community contributed to the series of attacks on the community and the neighbouring villages. The security agents are not doing enough to see an end to these attacks, because none of the attackers, who are known to be Fulani herdsmen, has been arrested “The government is silent over what is going on in my community despite that we have government representatives in the district. “The authorities must rise up to their responsibilities to protect lives and the property of the residents. “Security officials only arrive after people have been killed and this has always been our experience, including this latest killing. We have lost hope in this government, because it has failed us completely.” However, Moses said shortly after his comments were published in some national dailies, soldiers stormed his house and whisked him away to one of their bases in the Kwall district of the council area. The young man, who took to his Facebook page to narrate his experience, said apart from being hit by the soldiers, who bundled him into their waiting vehicle, cold water from a running tap was poured on his body, while the soldiers asked him to roll on the wet ground in the rain. Moses stated, “Everything has a price tag. When you dare to be a voice for the masses, you have to live the consequences. “It was exactly 3.25pm on April 10, 2020, that more than a dozen soldiers stormed my residence and picked me, threw me into their vehicle, took me to their base, put me under a running tap, asked me to roll on the wet floor and manhandled me as if I am a criminal. “My friends, who followed me to their base, were also slapped, kicked and maltreated by the soldiers outside their compound, close to the Nigerian College of Accountancy. According to them, my offence was that I incited the people against them and against the government. They further said that instead of appreciating them, I insulted them instead. But those were actually not my offence. I have witnesses; my statement was published; it wasn’t incitement of any sort. “I was assaulted for saying this. Is that not an infringement on my human right? Speak the truth and die; don’t, and you still die; but I chose the former.” Moses said he was eventually released after the lawmaker representing the Irigwe/Rukuba constituency in the Plateau state House of Assembly, Mr Musa Agah, intervened in the matter He stated, “When they picked me, I managed to send a text message to the lawmaker representing my constituency in the state House of Assembly, Mr Musa Agah. He was the one who came and pleaded with them before they were able to release me. It was really a very dehumanising experience for me for committing no offence other than saying that the killing of innocent people in my community by gunmen must not be allowed to continue. “I am not a coward. The truth is that we cannot be intimidated into silence until the security agents and those in authority live up to their expectation and stop the killings in my constituency and other parts of Plateau State and Nigeria at large.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  