Success Nwogu, Abuja The African Democratic Congress has appealed to Nigerians, especially leaders of opposition parties to rally round the regime of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in order to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria. National Publicity Secretary of ADC, Yemi Kolapo, made the appeal in a statement, on Thursday. The party noted that just like the nation did during the Ebola crisis, this was the time for all to come together and take bold steps to deal with the current global health challenge. While noting that there were still gaps to be filled, she stressed that those in charge of the disbursement of the COVID-19 palliatives needed to change their strategy “because the current one is clearly not working.” Kolapo said, “Nigerians have never complained of not having enough well-constructed speeches, which, most times, end up as empty rhetoric. “The bone of contention has been poor implementation and insincerity. All we need to do now is chase government for sincere and thorough implementation, and ensure they don’t play politics with the ultimate beneficiaries. “Everyone knows the limitations of the current government in terms of driving the economy. But what we have in our hands now is not a joke. “The opposition parties the world over are building bridges to save lives first, leaving political tussles for normal days. When we argue, we must do so constructively.” The publicity secretary urged Nigerians to focus on drawing government’s attention to the areas they were getting things wrong. She enjoined Nigerians to demand transparency from those saddled with the responsibility of distributing palliatives just as she stressed the importance of proper communication. She said the Buhari regime was more at home with “playing political chess rather than economic development.” She asked the President to “break the political brick walls and call for help where his government is clearly helpless.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  