Samuel Awoyinfa The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission has said it will not allow manufacturers and service providers which operate in Nigeria to circumvent the due process or indulge in any act that is antithetical to consumers’ well-being. The Chief Executive Officer of the commission, Mr Babatunde Irukera, said this on Wednesday when he led a team of journalists to Lekki Phase 1 in Lagos where a facility allegedly operating cosmetic surgery and aesthetics, Med Contour, was sealed off. Irukera, who said the commission had received complaints from some unnamed members of the public concerning the services offered by the facility, added that it had commenced an investigation into the matter in line with provisions of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act under Sections 18(4), 32 and 33. He said, “We are here to seal off this facility based on the complaints from members of the public concerning the services it offers. We want to be sure the services provided are carried out by professionals, and that the consumers are safe. “In the scope of our investigation, we shall also be invoking Sections17 (s),(t),(x),(y) and 130, which prohibit obnoxious practices, require services to be safe and for the commission to act to reduce risk or injury to consumers, as well as ensure services comply with applicable standards of care.” Irukera said Sections 123, 124, and 125 of the FCCPC Act prohibited any manufacturer or service provider from making  misleading statements, issuing guaranties or statements about efficacy skills or probable outcomes with respect to the services that were untested or scientifically unproven. He added, “In furtherance of this investigation, the commission is keen to gather additional information from consumers with previous experiences with Med Contour or its operatives, whether the experiences were satisfactory or otherwise, and from persons who have any such relevant information, including the experiences of others.” After the sealing off the facility, a letter of invitation was also pasted on the door. It was signed by the Head of the Legal Services of the commission, Tam Tamunokonbia, which ordered the operator of the facility to report at the commission’s Lagos office at Ilupeju on Monday May 4,2020, to provide the needed evidence in the ongoing investigation. Talking about the sealed Chinese restaurant at the Victoria Island, which was accused of racial discrimination of not providing services to Nigerians, Irukera said the facility would remain shut until the management did the right thing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  