Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja A total of N1.551tn operating surplus of some revenue generating agencies of government was remitted to the Federal Government Consolidated Revenue Fund from 2007 to 2018. This was disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report of the Fiscal Responsibility Commission. The report, which was obtained on Tuesday, disclosed that remittances into the CRF by scheduled corporations, revenue generating ministries, departments and agencies that are statutorily mandated to remit their operating surplus, recorded year-on-year increases from 2007 to 2016. But the amount remitted into the CRF witnessed a decline since 2017, a development which the report blamed on the ‘lackadaisical attitude’ of the concerned MDAs. The Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007 empowered the FRC to monitor the remittances of the operating surpluses of the MDAs into the CRF. The report said the efforts of the FRC, and the introduction of the Treasury Single Account improved remittance into the CRF. The report said, “The full compliance with the TSA by most scheduled corporations has greatly enhanced operating surplus remittance as the treasury now has direct access to the funds available to every agency. “As opposed to chasing corporations for remittance to the CRF, the commission in collaboration with the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation now calculate and agrees on what to recover from corporations. “A total of N1.55tn has so far been remitted into the CRF by the sheer efforts of the commission despite dwindling budgetary allocations.” According to the practice, an MDA’s Annual Audited Account and report from which operating surplus/deficit is determined is prepared in the year succeeding the one being reported and must be submitted to the FRC at the end of March. However, the report observed that the sum accruing to the CRF had declined since 2017 partly as a result of late submission of audited financial statements by scheduled corporations. It also noted that revenue generating MDAs had been defaulting in the remittance of internally generated revenue to the CRF. A total sum of N7,971,211,645.29 independent revenue was remitted to the treasury by 15 MDAs in 2018, compared with N11,524,142,531.16 remitted by 21 MDAs in 2017. Shedding light on issues arising from revenue monitoring activities in 2018, the report explained that the FRC sent out requests and reminders to concerned the MDAs to submit revenue returns on a quarterly basis in order to assess their level of compliance with the provisions of the FRA, 2007. Only 13 MDAs out of 40 contacted completed their 2018 submissions as compared to 19 in 2017, leading to a drop in compliance rate from 47.5 per cent to 32.5 per cent. The development prompted the commission to embark on an ongoing system audit of selected MDAs, which is aimed at increasing revenue remittances to the CRF. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  