Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja President of the Trade Union Congress, Quadri Olaleye, has said that fall in the price of crude oil globally is not enough for workers to accept deferment of the new minimum wage of N30,000 per month till next year. The impact of COVID-19 has seen the price of oil to fall drastically globally from between $60 to 70 per barrel in January to $22.39 as at 10am Central Standard Time on Thursday. State governments have expressed concern that there might be nothing to share from the Federal Allocation Account going by the falling price. Asked if labour would consider a deferment of the new minimum wage based on the new development, Olaleye said it was too early to put forward such proposal if government at all levels had been prudent with past earnings and shared allocations. He said, “The proposal, if put forward, will sound mischievous if we consider how much we have earned from crude oil and other earnings in the past. Why are we quick to talk about suspension of the minimum wage? Why don’t we talk about cutting down the cost of governance? “It is a painful thing that the price of oil crashed in the global market. Labour has always called for diversification but the craze for oil money blindfolded the powers that be. Nobody knew this (COVID-19 pandemic) would happen but it did. Government must pick the lessons and run the country with the fear of God.” Olaleye said instead of coming up with a proposal for workers to forget the new minimum wage for now after the struggle to make government implement it, government should eradicate corruption within the ruling class and diversify the economy. He added, “We need to drastically cut down the cost of corruption in government. Recall that the National Assembly, in the midst of this (COVID-19) spent N5.04bn to purchase the 2020 model of Toyota Camry for lawmakers. “We also need to diversify the economy, practise re-industrialisation and improve agriculture in the country. Crash in oil price is not going to be a permanent thing; it only reacted to the vagaries of international market. Our government must sincerely fight and end corruption and build infrastructure.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.