John Alechenu, Abuja Fresh crisis has engulfed the Gombe State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress following the decision of a faction of the party to expel the member of the House of Representatives representing Akko Federal Constituency, Usman Kumo. A letter of expulsion signed by 21 members of the Kumo East Ward, was sighted by The PUNCH, in Abuja, on Thursday. The federal lawmaker was allegedly expelled for anti-party activities. In the letter, the APC ward chairman, Musa Barade, and 20 others accused the lawmaker of sundry offences bordering on actions aimed at bringing the party into disrepute. However, the lawmaker while denying the accusation and dismissing the expulsion as fake, accused the supporters of the Senator Danjuma Goje (APC Gombe Central) of seeking to smear his reputation. In the expulsion letter dated April 1, 2020, which was addressed to the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, the ward party executives said, they took the decision to expel him after following due process as enshrined in the party’s constitution. The letter partly read, “Upon receipt of the petition against Hon Kumo, the ward executive committee constituted and inaugurated a seven-man fact-finding committee to investigate the allegations levelled against him. “That the anti-party activities of Hon Usman Bello Kumo against the election of Alhaji Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya at the 2019 general elections as governor of Gombe State is an infamous conduct, cannot be tolerated and its contrary to the provisions of the party’s constitution as enshrined in Article 21, paragraph A(1) and (2) 2014 as amended. “That the car donation by Hon Usman Bello Kumo to an interloper, one Garba Inuwa Gona, who is not even a constituent of Akko Federal Constituency, simply because he insulted our party leader, Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje, on Progress Radio, Gombe , clearly demonstrated his indiscipline, immorality and a total disrespect to the leadership of the party, the governor of Gombe State and would certainly have an adverse effect on the progress, peace and stability of our great party.” However, in his reaction, Kumo said he was aware that some of his political opponents who were afraid of his rising profile had become desperate and would stop at nothing including a resort to illegality to get him out of the way. The lawmaker said, “Remember, a similar futile method was recently used in Edo State to get the national chairman of the party out of the way but melted out in the court of law, the same way the Gombe childish plot will be thrown away if reasons are not allowed to prevail now.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 