The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State, Paul Omotoso, insists in this interview with ABIODUN NEJO that the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole must leave and also talks about the exit of Segun Oni from the party, among others issues How has the APC in Ekiti fared under you? We have been trying our best. We came on board in 2018 and since then we have been trying to foster peace among our members, we have succeeded to a large extent in doing that. Things were hard for the party before we took over, what we did was to resuscitate it first, which we needed. Then, we have been able to garner support for the government of Dr Kayode Fayemi.  Our party has taken part in various elections – Presidential, National Assembly, House of Assembly and Local Government Area elections, which we won. The essence of having political parties is to win elections and rule. Right now, the products of the APC in Ekiti State from Mr Governor to all other elected officers of our party in Ekiti have all been doing well. There were lots of problems in the state when the APC came on board but the governor has taken care of many of them especially in the areas of agriculture, education and infrastructure, among others. There are stories of people planning to go to other political parties here and there, but what is important to us in Ekiti State is that we are solidified as a party and we are moving. We have embarked on aggressive mobilisation. What we have now is far larger in terms of membership. A chieftain of your party, specifically Senator Babafemi Ojudu, recently expressed fears that with the way Governor Kayode Fayemi is going, it will be difficult for the APC to produce his successor in 2022, do you agree? Senator Ojudu is entitled to his opinion. But if Senator Ojudu is saying that about Fayemi, what then should we say about him? How will he just come to such a conclusion? Senator Ojudu is a man we all respect in Ekiti State, but I can say he has never contributed anything meaningful to the progress of our party and government of Ekiti State. He is always anti-government here. He doesn’t want to hear anything that has to do with Fayemi. This is a person who was our senator for four years. It was Fayemi that virtually made him to be a senator. That time, Fayemi was good, but now that he (Ojudu) wanted to be governor of Ekiti State and could not make it, halfway, he withdrew when he saw the handwriting on the wall that he was not going anywhere; and when Fayemi got it, at last, he is now complaining about Fayemi. He should tell us the areas where Fayemi is not doing well, we will tell him what the governor is doing in Ekiti State. Ojudu has been far from Ekiti. How then will he assess what is happening here or appreciate what Fayemi is doing here? He should tell us how many people he has taken care of in his ward in Ado Ekiti, much more Ekiti State. So, it is unfortunate for him to be assessing Fayemi and saying he would not be able to produce a successor from the APC. I say categorically that Fayemi will be succeeded by an APC governor. Fayemi is passionate about the Ekiti project. A former Deputy National Chairman of the party, Chief Segun Oni, recently left the APC for the PDP, why did you allow him to leave? In the first place, we did not force him to come to the APC. Former Governor Segun Oni is an adult, he is entitled to his opinions, decisions, and choices. When he said he was coming to the APC, we thought he was coming to be an active member of the APC, but throughout his stay in the APC, he was a nominal member of the party despite being a deputy national chairman. He was never a member of the party with a clear conscience. If he now decides that he is leaving the APC, I don’t think there is anything that is not in order. He came here, he never impacted positively on the party except that he has been throwing up some problems. What kind of problems? Like the time Fayemi won the election. Recall that Oni contested the governorship primaries with Fayemi alongside 31 others. Eventually, Fayemi emerged. Oni did not challenge the outcome of that primary election and he did not challenge the outcome of the governorship election which Fayemi won. Rather, he challenged the eligibility of Fayemi, the same grounds that the PDP challenged, saying that Fayemi was indicted by a White Paper that was orchestrated by former Governor Ayo Fayose and that Fayemi did not resign at the appropriate time. All these would not have arisen from any member of our party that is conscientiously working for the success and progress of the party. He troubled the party, but we still tolerated him. Thank God that Fayemi’s victory was vindicated by the Supreme Court. How would you expect a genuine member of a party to do what Oni did? Also, at a time, he was suspended by the executives of the party in his ward, instead of him to address the issue, he started blackmailing the party in the state and Fayemi as being behind it. If he has chosen to go back to the PDP where he came from, is there any justification for not allowing him to go? Immediately on getting to the APC, he was given the highest position in the party, but nobody forced him to leave. He resigned because he wanted to contest. He lost the contest and he wants to go back to the PDP because he could not clinch an opportunity again in the APC. But why didn’t the state and the national leadership intervene when he was suspended by the ward EXCO? It was a matter that happened within his ward. By the time we got to know about it through a letter that was sent to us, we invited the EXCO members in his ward to a meeting in Ado Ekiti, but before the meeting day, there was already a petition before the APC national headquarters alleging that the party and Fayemi masterminded the suspension. Ordinarily, if we had gone further, that would have amounted to an afterthought. Allegations were already raised against us, so, we were waiting for the national headquarters to intervene because there was a petition before it which was acknowledged. So, we kept expecting when the national headquarters would intervene. Ordinarily, we could not assume jurisdiction over a matter that we were alleged to be a party to. Oni did not see it as a problem between him and his ward, but as a problem between him and the party/Fayemi. We could not have been a judge in our case. There is the accusation that the APC moved against Oni and his supporters because of post-primary election litigation, how true is it? Let him show a single proof that the party moved against him. Ordinarily, he ought to have been suspended by the time he was taking the party to court. But we never bothered as a party because we knew he would fail. Let him give a proof that the party was against him. By the time the whole thing was over, he wanted to come back into the fold. He said he was leaving because he and his members were being maltreated. That was why I said he did not join us conscientiously. Ordinarily, by the time he joined the APC, he ought to have forgotten about the PDP, the moment you are a member of the APC you are integrated completely. If there is integration and you are still saying you have some people apart from the general members of the party, then it means you have something negative. We treat everybody as members of the same party, not as followers of any individual. Fayemi was magnanimous enough as soon as the primary was over, the first thing he did was to move round to visit all the aspirants that contested with him for them to be able to work together and you will see that he achieved that. Later he made an offer to Oni to take the senatorial ticket, but he (Oni) rejected it because he was being deceived by the thought that he would win the case in court and that he would retrieve the mandate that never belonged to him from Fayemi. How will you react to his assertion that the APC is worse than the PDP? Politically, Oni has always been a product of shortcut to success. When he was in the PDP, he wanted to become governor, he contested in the primaries, he came third and he was declared the winner. Even during the governorship election, he was declared the winner of an election he did not win, but the courts exposed the situation that surrounded it and said it was Fayemi that won the election. He felt that what was happening in the PDP will happen in the APC. Thirty-three aspirants contested the governorship primaries, Fayemi who won was reaching out to them one by one, but Oni felt all appointments should be given to him and his followers. A number of those who came with him were given considerations in terms of appointments. So, if he is concluding that he cannot have everything the way he used to have them in the PDP, he is correct because the APC is not like the PDP. His conviction is based on the fact that the way he felt he would manipulate the APC that is not easy for him makes the APC worse than the PDP. The PDP ran Ekiti down and that is what Fayemi is trying to rebuild now. Even Nigeria experienced a turbulent period during the 16 years of the PDP rule at the centre. Some people have said his return to the PDP will negatively affect the performance of your party in future elections… If a vacuum will be created when somebody leaves, that person must have occupied a space. I said earlier that Oni was a nominal member of our party. He was never fully with us, he never shared the principles of our party, he came and was looking for opportunities to grab and when it was no longer possible to grab opportunities, he decided to leave us. He was not impactful while with us, let him tell us how many people he helped with employment or contract since he never made any impact, how then will his departure be felt? But rather, we have every cause to celebrate his exit. Now that the appeal court has returned Adams Oshiomhole to office as the APC national chairman, where do you still stand? That is the appeal court. That is not the final court of the land. My position is that Adams Oshiomhole must go. I don’t have any contradiction to that and I have my reason. I don’t have anything personal against him, but I think he is too autocratic and he is too sophisticated for the progress and stability of our party in this country. Somebody like me wants him to leave and I still stand by that that he needs to leave. He must leave if this party is to move forward. Don’t you think the crises and the numerous court cases against your party and as well divisions would affect the APC chances in future elections? No. These are issues that will be resolved. If Oshiomhole is not doing well and we are clamouring for his exit, he will surely leave and when he leaves, there will be peace. I know for sure. So, nothing is going to affect us. The issue of Oshiomhole is not going to polarise our party, it is a matter of principle, this person is not doing very well and that he needs to leave. I believe that at a point he will see the need to resign and go. The APC is solid, nothing will affect our party. No matter what is happening within our party is just a family issue that will be resolved in a manner it will not create any serious crisis or tension. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 