Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja Exactly one week after the headquarters of the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation was gutted by fire, there was another fire outbreak at the headquarters of the Corporate Affairs Commission on Wednesday. The fire, according to sources, occurred in the morning at the seven-storied building located in Maitama, Abuja. The building is located on the same street that houses other top government offices such as the National Youth Service Corps, the Nigeria Incentives Risk Based Sharing for Agricultural Lending and the Nigeria Export Promotion Commission. The Registrar-General of the CAC, Alhaji Garba Abubakar, confirmed the incident to our correspondent. He said that as soon as the fire outbreak was noticed at about 10:20am, men of the Federal Fire Service were quickly mobilised to put it out. Explaining what caused the incident, the CAC boss said that the outer units of the split Air Conditioners on the 6th floor in the main building exploded due to power surge. He said the sound attracted the attention of the few personnel within the premises and they immediately mobilised to quench the fire using fire extinguishers and fire hose reels within the building. He said, “At about 10.20 hours today one of the outer units of the split Air Conditioners on the 6th floor in the main building exploded due to power surge. “The sound attracted the attention of the few personnel within the premises and they immediately mobilised to quench the fire using fire extinguishers and fire hose reels within the building. “The fire had descended through the outer AC ducts to the 5th and 4th floors which necessitated a call to Federal Capital Territory Fire Service and they promptly responded. “The fire has since been contained. Only one unit of 2hp Split Air conditioner and the electric cabling leading to it were affected.” Abubakar said there was no loss of document or life in the fire outbreak. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com