Our Reporters The police authorities have failed to provide masks, hand gloves and hand sanitisers for operatives enforcing the lockdown order and restriction of movement in the Federal Capital Territory. One of our correspondents, who went around the city during the week observed that only few senior officers wore face masks while the rank and file were not protected in any way. A police inspector sighted at a checkpoint at Jabi wore a face mask but four other junior policemen with him were not protected. Patrol teams at Galadimawa Roundabout, Airport by-pass, Idi-Karmo Road, Airport Road and other parts of the city were also not seen in masks. The men explained that the police authorities did not provide the items. A corporal, who spoke on condition of anonymity said, “We were not given either face mask or hand sanitiser. We thought these items would be provided for those of us enforcing the lockdown order to check the risk of contracting COVID-19 from our interaction with the public.” None of the five policemen at a checkpoint at the Idu Industrial Layout used either a face mask or hand gloves. The FCT police spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, could not be reached for comment. But a senior officer explained that the command had earlier shared face masks, hand gloves and hand sanitiser to its men, adding that it was in the process of acquiring more to give to all officers in the command. Also, one of our correspondents who monitored some checkpoints in Lagos on Thursday noticed that most policemen on duty neither used face masks nor hand gloves. Among the checkpoints visited are Ogunnusi Road, New Garage, along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Lekki-Epe Expressway and Adeniji Adele Junction. A policeman was seen wearing face mask at a checkpoint close to Accident and Emergency Centre, Tollgate. The police spokesperson in the state, DSP Bala Elkana, admitted that the command did not provide face mask and gloves for the operatives but said hand sanitiser, water and soap were made available to them. He said, “They have water and soap as well as hand sanitisers. A position has not been taken on face masks. We are following the update whether it is compulsory for people to wear them. We are told it’s only a sick person or someone taking care of a sick person that can wear face mask. “Once a stand is taken, we will also key into it. We are also told that it is even more dangerous to use hand gloves than not to use it. Medically, they said gloves should not be worn for a long time. “What is more important for them is to wash their hands with water and soap regularly and those things were provided for them in the patrol vehicles. They also have small hand sanitisers in their pockets and big ones in their vehicles.” The spokesperson for the police in Ogun State, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said he did not believe face masks were meant for everyone. He, however, said the command provided hand sanitisers for policemen. Fayose seeks masks, hand gloves for police, others Meanwhile, the  former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, on Saturday urged the Inspector General of Police and heads of other security agencies in the country to ensure that their officers enforcing the lockdown across the country wore masks and hand gloves for protection against the dreaded coronavirus. Fayose, who said the protective materials should be provided for the security agents, lamented that “lives of security agents, especially policemen were being put at risk by allowing them to go on duty without adequate protection.” The former governor, in a statement in Ado Ekiti by his media aide, Lere Olayinka, stated, “Apart from mask and hand gloves, security agents must be provided with hand sanitisers to prevent community transmission of coronavirus.’’ By Adelani Adepegba,Afeez Hanafi and ABIODUN NEJO Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  