Umar Muhammed, Lafia The Nasarawa State House of Assembly has ordered for the immediate arrest of four media aides to the embattled Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Aliyu Ahmed, for allegedly instigating the state against the lawmakers. They accused the media aides of spreading false information alleging that each lawmaker collected N11m from the state government for distribution as COVID-19 palliatives to their constituents. The resolution of the House followed a motion on a matter of urgent public importance moved by the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Mr Mohammed Omadefu, during an emergency sitting of the assembly on Tuesday. Speaker of the House, Mr Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, while reading the resolution also urged the state government to issue a statement to clarify the issue. He explained that such reports if left unclarified were capable of creating confusion. Balarabe-Abdullahi said, “The arrest of the purveyors of such fake news and hate speech in social media by security agencies for prosecution will serve as deterrent to others. “The reports on social media that the state government has given us money as palliative to our constituents over COVID-19 is unfortunate and false. “It is in view of this that the House passed the following resolutions: “One, the House debunks the story circulating on social media that the state government has given members money for palliative for their constituents to cushion the effect of COVID-19. “Secondly, the House calls on the Executive arm to come out and make a statement to clear the air on the purported fund. “The House mandates the Chairmen, House Committee on Security and Information to meet with the security agencies for the arrest of those involved in such acts for prosecution to serve as deterrent to others.” He urged the youths not to allow themselves to be used as agents of fake news and hate speech. Earlier, the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Mr Mohammed Omadefu (APC- Keana), said media aides to the SSG were circulating reports on social media that the state government had given members N11m each as palliative for their constituents over COVID-19 pandemic. After hearing contributions by members, the house passed the resolutions. Recall that the house is investigating allegations that the SSG diverted N1bn meant for the renovation of schools while he served as the state commissioner for education, during the last administration. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     