Odion Ighalo has shared his excitement at the prospect of a midfield pairing of Bruno Fernandes and Paul Pogba as the on-loan striker revealed his belief that Manchester United is going to be great again. The Nigeria striker has impressed since sealing a surprise temporary switch to Old Trafford in January, scoring four goals in eight outings for his new club. Ighalo is one of many United stars to have benefited from the arrival of Fernandes. The Portuguese has taken to life at United seamlessly and has triggered an overwhelming sense of optimism among the United masses. Fernandes has been a bright spark in a team lacking real creative talent, with Paul Pogba sidelined for the majority of the season. Ighalo believes that when Fernandes and United star Paul Pogba finally link up in the midfield, fans will see ‘a different team’. “He (Pogba) is working hard to get back to fitness and imagine when we have Pogba and Bruno in the midfield, then you will see a different team – (Marcus) Rashford coming back also,’ Ighalo said in an interview with Juliet Bawuah. “Manchester United is going to be great again, winning games week in, week out. He’s a great player and it’s going to be a privilege to play with him.” Ighalo knows Fernandes well as they spent time together in Italy seven years ago. The 30-year-old said the best is yet to come from his team-mate. “Bruno is a fantastic player,” he added. “I played with him in 2013-14 at Udinese. We’ve not seen the best of him yet in the Premier League. “Once Bruno Fernandes settles down in England you will see what that guy can do. He has vision, he wants the ball always. He can shoot, he can score goals, he is very intelligent. “Before the ball comes, he is a step ahead to know what he wants to do. In times to come you are going to see what he can do in the Premier League, even better than what he is doing now.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  