Nike Popoola The Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria has released guidelines on the impact of COVID-19 on financial reporting. The FRC said on its website on Thursday that this was the second set of guidelines to be released by the council in two weeks. While the first guidelines targeted auditors of financial statements in Nigeria, it stated that the latest targeted preparers of financial statements during the COVID-19 period. The regulator noted that its statutory responsibilities involved ensuring accuracy and reliability of financial reports and corporate disclosures; maintaining a register of professional accountants and other professionals engaged in the financial reporting process; and advising the Federal Government on matters relating to accounting and financial reporting standards in Nigeria. It added that the purpose of the guidance was for directors of reporting entities and those charged with governance to assess the risk of COVID-19 at an early stage of the financial reporting and audit process. “The guidance therefore serves to draw preparers’ attention to the possible impact of COVID-19 on their businesses with the consequent financial reporting implications which they are expected to give particular attention to, all within the framework of existing body of standards such as International Financial Reporting Standards,” it stated. Some of the specific issues addressed in the guidance are “events after the reporting period, going concern, effects on interim financial reporting; changes in expected credit losses for loans and other financial assets; net realisable of inventories; group reporting; effects of government and regulatory relief programmes on entities and their customers and transparency and disclosures.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. 