Coronavirus is nothing short of a terrible affliction that has brought the world to its knees. More developed nations are scrambling to catch-up while developing countries like ours are trying to grapple with this sudden reality that may spell doom for us, should what befell Europe and the United States in recent weeks befalls us. The outcome is only best imagined. That is why everyone must play a role in preventing community transmission through social distancing and good personal hygiene. In my personal opinion, I think the good side of Covid-19 for a country like Nigeria that has all it takes to be advanced than it is now, is that it has further revealed to us all how exposed and porous we are as a nation; be it healthcare, social services, security, infrastructure, and even the state of our broadband. Maybe all of these inconveniences will make us a less complacent nation, one that will rise up and demand more from our leaders. That said, today’s piece is really focused on the state of our broadband and why we must take this as an important and urgent national issue. The last few weeks have shown that quality broadband services are not in nice new headlines but in actual experience. What is the quality of service if one million people within a locality are all streaming at the same time? Do the customers know when they are being throttled or undercut through lesser quality service then they ought to get? A lot more people have turned to digital since the lockdown was enforced and for many of them, the service has just been poor, saddening, crappy and messed up. I personally have to rely on three different service providers and quite frankly, it has been a struggle. Nigerians need to demand more from service providers and also, the government needs to provide an enabling environment. It is so sad that the right of way remains an issue. I first wrote about this issue seven years ago via this same platform and here we are in 2020, many states, with leaders who are only after what they will eat today, still regard it as a key source of revenue. Failure of such leaders to see and understand where the world is going pre and post the pandemic will make such leaders further impoverish their people. Once upon a time, the pioneer Executive Vice-Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission, Ernest Ndukwe, and Chairman of Zenith Bank Plc, Jim Ovia, co-chaired a presidential committee on broadband penetration. It was a committee that quite a number of industry players thought did a decent job and so, when Adebayo Shittu was named Minister of Communications, I tracked him down for an interview and one of the questions I asked him was about that broadband plan and its implementation. He responded that the broadband plan had been discarded because it became politicised. It was shocking to hear that because I know that the committee laid a solid foundation that would have transformed our digital economy had we followed through. In any case, this is 2020; the current Minister of Communications, Dr Isa Pantami, has constituted a fresh broadband committee to help speed up Nigeria’s broadband drive. A commendable move but quite frankly, I have not taken time to review their terms of reference because I am tired of how easily we set up committees and nothing follows afterward. I know some members of the committee and I am sure they will try to do the right thing. However, what happens to the submission of the committee post-2025? This is the bigger question that needs to be answered. Recently, we had an online meeting and over 30 per cent of the attendees had serious issues connecting – a particular attendee joined the meeting from the South Eastern part of the country and it was difficult for him to effectively participate, despite the fact that he had to subscribe to the services of all four major providers. This is indeed shameful for a country that has around nine-terabyte bandwidth capacity, currently wasting away at the seashore, all because of lack of foresight. This brings me to the issue of rural broadband. Lagos and many other major cities are already congested. However, more people will find their way into these already congested cities except we make life in rural communities a bit comfortable by making sure they also have access to high-speed broadband I started my career in the telecommunications industry and that experience opened my eyes to the fact that rural broadband is a fad, or if you like, a myth. It may never become a reality because, for the private sector, the maths does not add up. It is going to cost them millions of dollars to develop and maintain the infrastructure in rural areas and if there are not enough users or if users do not spend enough, then, it means bad business for them. Yes, infracos have been licensed but as things stand today, it is simply not going to make economic sense for anyone to put in their money. So, what has a country like Germany done to ensure that rural areas also get access to quality broadband like cities? I am sure you can guess the answer. First, they made the policies favourable and also invested (and continue to invest) billions of Euros in the process. I think the lesson for Nigeria is that we need to do a lot more than just talk. I have often stated on this column that technology does not respect long speeches, favouritism, nepotism, tribe, religion and other factors that we sadly, prioritise in our country. What technology respects mainly are quality education, the right investments backed up with research and development and effective, long-term thinking policies. May the sleeping giant truly arise post-COVID-19! CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  