Samuel Awoyinfa The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers has unveiled  plans to deliver a weekly supply of 1,000 bottles of sanitisers as well as other safety and protective kits to the 120 depots and 300 stopovers for tanker drivers in the country. The President, NUPENG Williams Akporeha, stated this while flagging off the distribution of the items to assist petroleum tanker drivers and others in the oil and gas value chain  protect themselves  against the raging novel coronavirus. He   called on state governments and security agencies to come to the aid of the practitioners so they could carry out seamless distribution of fuel across the country. The NUPENG president stated further that the union had engaged some pharmaceutical companies to produce 1,000 quantities of 10 litres Jerry cans of sanitisers every week,  to be distributed to petrol tanker drivers nationwide. He said the move was in fulfillment of the union’s earlier pledge to assist its members on the frontline, especially at the fuel loading points, to protect themselves against COVID-19 disease. He said “We have 154 petroleum loading depots across the country, but as we speak, we have 120 of the depots in operation. “Besides that, PTD has about 300 places across the country that serve as their stopover points for resting and recreation; we will be distributing these items to all the places. “Conservatively, we will be sending out about 1000 of these items every week until the siege is over.” Akporeha pleaded with state governments and security agents to cooperate with the union to ensure seamless fuel distribution across the country. He said the security agencies  must ensure that there were no touting and unethical practices at the depots and other loading points. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  