’Femi Asu The nation’s power transmission system requires significant improvement and the Transmission Company of Nigeria should be unbundled, an energy expert, Dr Ayodele Oni, has said. Oni, who is a partner at Bloomfield Law Practice, said in a report that the assumption during the 2013 privatisation process was that the power sector would improve substantially. He said, “Despite the substantial privatisation of the generation and distribution segments of the Nigerian electricity supply industry and the involvement of private sector management of the transmission system (albeit for three years), not much progress has been felt in terms of availability of affordable electric power or indeed, even expensive power supply. “Each stakeholder in NESI has a certain level of culpability for the inefficiency in the electricity market and in revenue collection by the distribution companies.” According to Oni, there is a need to unbundle the TCN into an independent system operator and a transmission service provider. He said, “The ISO would be independent of the transmission company and be licensed to perform market operation functions. To ensure efficiency, the ISO should be managed by experienced professionals charged with key performance indicators including capacity recovery and expansion targets. “The transmission service provider would be solely responsible for the transmission of electricity in Nigeria. Due to national security concerns, it would be government-owned but would concede the right to work the network to a private, preferably foreign, operator to manage.” Oni said the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission could look to South American countries for inspiration, as these countries had implemented the build-own-operate-transfer option in public private partnerships to improve the transmission system. “Private companies work with the government to build new transmission infrastructure, operate these for a specified period for financial gain and then transfer the facilities to the government for a fee or other mutually acceptable arrangements,” he added. According to him, customers contribute to the problem of the sector through widespread electricity theft. He said, “The fault of the Discos lies primarily in their inability to adequately meter customers, despite clauses in their performance agreements with the Bureau of Public Enterprises and the Ministry of Finance Incorporated mandating them to do so and several directives by NERC ordering them to do so. “The Federal Government’s culpability arises from its failure to upgrade the transmission infrastructure, secure the prompt settlement of electricity bills by its ministries, departments and agencies and the NERC’s delay in implementing a cost-reflective tariff.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 