Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja Assailants have hacked a 50-year-old woman, Mrs Mary Edibo, to death. The Kogi State Police Command, while confirming the killing, said the incident occurred last week in the Omala Local Government Area of the state. The woman, who hailed from Agbenema-Ife, a surbub of Abejukolo, headquarters of the local government, was dealt several machete blows by the assailants while returning home from the neighbouring Agabifo village. Our correspondent gathered that the deceased, a petty trader, returned from the local market earlier in the day, went to see her customers in the neighbouring village and was returning home when she met her death. The incident came barely four days after a middle-aged man was similarly murdered in a nearby community. The victim, Malam Amodu Ucha of the Ajodoma village, was also killed with machetes on his way to the farm. Confirming the latest incident to journalists, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP William Ayah, said on April 10, 2020, the deceased’s brother, one Mr Abdul of the Agbenema community, reported the incident at Abejukolo at the divisional headquarters. He said when the police team went to the scene of the incident, it was discovered that Mary sustained deep cuts on her head and parts of the face. “Our men took the photograph of the scene and evacuated the remains for post-mortem examination, but the family declined,” Ayah explained. He, however, said the police had commenced investigation into the matter and had mounted intensive surveillance around the communities and called on residents not to panic as the police were on top of the situation. Meanwhile, the residents of Omala Local Government Area of the state have called on Governor Yahaya Bello and the security agencies to unravel those behind the incessant killing of people by gunmen in the area. They noted that in recent times, some villages in Omala had become the epicentre for senseless killings by gunmen suspected to be herdsmen, a development that had resulted in the death of scores of people and the burning down of some villages in the local government area. They asked Bello to protect the lives and property of residents across the state by deploying a crack team of detectives in the area to bring those behind the dastardly acts to justice. The Senior Special Assistant on Security in Omala Local Government Area, Ibrahim Aboh, has vowed to do everything in his powers to bring the perpetrators to justice. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 