Rotimi Adesanya, Child and Public Health Physician, roayad@yahoo.com, 08037202050 A caring message was sent by someone who cares for others during this COVID-19 lockdown, the message read thus:  Dear family, friends and colleagues a friend working in the hospital here in London have informed me today that people are being brought to the hospital for developing  DVT, Deep Venous Thrombosis (blood clots on the legs) and they are dying of this disease as well. Everyone is advised to move around in the house (mobilise). Whether working on the computer at home or watching television, ensure that you move about frequently. Do exercise as much as you can to prevent this deadly disease. It is not only COVID-19 that is killing people. Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a condition in which blood clots form (most often) in the deep veins of the leg (known as deep vein thrombosis, DVT) and can travel in the circulation and lodge in the lungs (known as pulmonary embolism. If the dislodged clot is large enough it will cause instant death. Together, DVT and PE are known as VTE – a dangerous and potentially deadly medical condition. VTE is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. A survey conducted by an NGO found that global public awareness of thrombosis, DVT and PE is low, and much lower than awareness of other conditions like heart attack, stroke, hypertension, breast cancer, prostate cancer and AIDS. The first step towards reducing the number of deaths from thromboembolism is awareness. Unfortunately, awareness of VTE in Nigeria (as in many countries across the world) is low, among health professionals and the public at large. Risk Factors VTE does not discriminate. It affects people of all ages, races and ethnicities, and occurs in both men and women. Certain factors and situations can increase the risk of developing potentially deadly blood clots. Resulting from prolonged immobilisation, it could occur after a long-distance journey (more than four hours by air or motor vehicle) or after a long period of bed rest in persons who are chronically ill. Being in the hospital for an extended period, having surgery (especially hip, knee and cancer-related surgery); age (60+), Personal or family history of blood clots; cancer/chemotherapy, Using estrogen-based medication ( oral contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy); obesity; pregnancy or recent birth; smoking, alcohol consumption are all risk factors. Signs and Symptoms VTE can occur without any warning signs or symptoms and can go unrecognized and undiagnosed by a healthcare professional. Symptoms that do appear may be associated with either DVT or PE. Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT):  Pain or tenderness, often starting in the calf, swelling, including the ankle or foot, Redness or noticeable discoloration, Warmth. Pulmonary Embolism  Unexplained shortness of breath, rapid breathing, Chest pain (may be worse upon a deep breath), Rapid heart rate, Light headedness or passing out Prevention Research suggests that VTEs are often largely preventable. Individuals who are deemed ‘at-risk’ should be given appropriate prevention (referred to as “prophylaxis”), which can include: anti-clotting medications ( blood thinners, referred to as “anticoagulants”), mechanical devices (e.g., compression stockings,) Hospital patients may also be instructed to move around or do foot/leg exercises as soon and as often as possible. These measures are very effective but under-utilised. It is also recommended that people who sit in an appropriate position keep their thighs clear of the edge of their seats to avoid pressure; avoid crossing their legs at the ankles and knees; wear loose fitted clothing and even compression stockings and elevate their feet by using a footrest or luggage. Treatment DVT and PE are serious, life-threatening conditions that require immediate medical attention. Globally, The best treatment is prevention; it can differ by the patient but typically includes hydration, blood-thinning medication to break up clots and prevent new ones from forming. Options include: anticoagulants (e.g., injectables such as heparin or low molecular weight heparin, or tablets, mechanical devices (e.g., compression stockings), thrombolytic therapy. Early diagnosis and treatment can often lead to recovery, but long-term complications, such as post-thrombotic syndrome and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension may occur. Economic Burden In addition to disease burden, VTE can cause a significant global economic burden. Multiple diagnostic tests and treatments, prolonged hospital stay and follow-up care – including recurrent VTE – can be extremely costly. But by focusing on VTE prevention, healthcare systems can save money, improve outcomes and ultimately save lives. In conclusion, in order to avoid the sedentary lifestyle that the lockdown may pose, everyone is advised to move around in the house during this restriction. This is necessary because the restriction may last longer than two weeks depending on the outcome of several interventions/ prevention measures the government and public health experts has put in place. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com