Nike Popoola An health management organisation, AXA Mansard Health Limited, says as part of its commitment to improving access to quality healthcare service to all Nigerians during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond, it has introduced its telemedicine service. The HMO said in a statement that it was positioned to provide optimal and effective health risk management solutions and financial services to both individuals and corporate bodies. It stated that the telemedicine service allowed AXA Mansard Health’s customers to virtually visit the hospital and see a doctor from the comfort of their homes through their phones, laptops or tablets. “The service provides a platform that connects patients with licensed doctors who can consult, diagnose, prescribe medication and make recommendations on medical conditions and treatments,” it stated. The Chief Executive Office, AXA Mansard Health Limited, Mr Tope Adeniyi, stated, “One of the lessons this pandemic has taught the world is that healthcare will always be topmost priority to every individual, irrespective of the age, colour or gender. “We must therefore constantly strive to create sustainable and innovative solutions to cater to people’s healthcare needs at every point in time. “Therefore, we launched this service as part of our contribution to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and it is very much in line with our promise to empower people to live better lives. “The service will also help our customers reduce the risk of hospital acquired infections, help them align with social distancing guidelines and eliminate travel time to hospital.” AXA Mansard Health stated that it had established functional offices in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Enugu, with ongoing plans to open offices in other locations. It said it also had a 24-hour call centre, a team of highly trained and dedicated professionals, service portals at all AXA Mansard welcome centres nationwide, and had deployed state-of-the-art technology to attain operational excellence while contributing to prompt service delivery and overcoming challenges being encountered in the Nigerian health insurance industry. Adeniyi stated, “The health sector may become overwhelmed with the growing spread of COVID-19 virus, leaving patients with other health issues at risk of neglect. “To mitigate this risk, we have decided to employ the use of the telemedicine service to ensure all our customers are given the best treatment at any time.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.