Success Nwogu, Abuja Mohammed Atiku, is a son of former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar,  has said Nigeria can defeat the raging coronavirus pandemic with collective efforts. He urged all Nigerians to comply with  directives from the World Health Organisation, the Federal Government, the state government and other relevant bodies so that Nigeria could overcome the pandemic. He spoke in a video which his father shared on Thursday on his Twitter handle:@atiku. Mohammed  warned that there could be more deaths and more economic challenges if Nigerians did not come together to defeat  COVID-19. Mohammed said, “On the 20th of this month (March), I tested positive for COVID 19,  and that night I was brought to the isolation centre at the Gwagwalada University Teaching Hospital here where I have been since. I am currently on my 12th day here, I hope to be out soon. “But one thing I like to speak to Nigerians about my experience is fake news. Fake news is very bad. It compounds your problems if you  are in a vulnerable situation. Perhaps being from  a political family, I didn’t really feel that pain as much but people who are more vulnerable, this thing can really affect their health. So let me urge people out there to be very circumspect on how they treat information. Let them be careful in spreading information that is false. “But I like to urge all of us to come together and see how we can support one another. Because this is a challenge to our society and it is a challenge to our future, it is a challenge to the present. So we need the people to come together and understand that this requires collective efforts, the sooner we overcome this. The longer it takes to do that, the more the impact, the impact in terms of fatality potentially and also the economic impact.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 