Ife Ogunfuwa Two chief executive officers of Jumia, an African e-commerce company, have taken a salary cut as part of the latest actions to support the fight against coronavirus. The CEOs, Jeremy Hodara and Sacha Poignonnec, pledged to cut their respective salaries by 25 per cent during the COVID-19 crisis to support the company. “The last few weeks have been unprecedented, with the COVID-19 crisis affecting the lives and livelihoods of millions of people. We have taken major actions for our team, consumers, partners and communities. These are also times of great solidarity at Jumia. We will come out of this strong both as a team and as a company,” Hodara and Poignonnec said. The company, in a statement on Friday, said it had established a solidarity fund for the frontline members of staff carrying out essential duties every day in its warehouses and delivery hubs during the crisis. According to Jumia, the donations are made up of voluntary and confidential contributions from its employees. The company added it was sending 500,000 CE-certified face masks to health ministries in Nigeria, Egypt, Kenya and Morocco, among others, for use by health workers, leveraging the company’s global logistics network from China. Jumia said it had also delivered free meals to first responders and health workers in Morocco and Tunisia. “We have given visibility to key health instructions on our platforms. We collaborated with ministries of health in Nigeria, Egypt, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Morocco and South Africa to use our online platform to share and amplify the reach of much needed important health messages,” the e-commerce company said. The company said it had implemented increased hygiene and sanitary standards in its daily operations and delivery services to ensure the safe experience for its team, partners and consumers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  