Nike Popoola The total contributions into the Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 had risen to N25.89bn as at Friday, the Central Bank of Nigeria revealed in a statement. The list of donors is made of well-meaning Nigerians, companies and corporate organisations. In a media briefing on Friday, the coalition said it would complement the government’s efforts in containing the spread of the virus in the country. CACOVID also said it would start to give an update on how it utilised the funds raised from the private sector in the COVID-19 fight. Representatives of Access Bank and Dangote Group who are members of the group said this at the media briefing. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Aliko Dangote Foundation, Zouera Youssoufou, said it was important to support the government in bringing an end to the pandemic. She said that work had begun on the provision of materials and equipment of medical facilities in the six geopolitical zones. The chief executive officer said it would also involve the creation of testing, isolation and treatment centres, as well as the provision of care units and testing labs. Youssoufou said the group was doing its best, and that teams had been raised to achieve its aims. She said that CACOVID was working with other global bodies and world-class standards to aggressively pursue a solution to the pandemic. The Head, Corporate Communications, Access Bank, Amaechi Okobi, said the group would continue to work with the government to curb the pandemic in the country. He said, “CACOVID will also provide palliatives for those who really need them to ease their hardships during the lockdown period.” He also solicited private sector support and increased awareness in winning the COVID-19 fight in the country Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com