Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The Chinese authorities have concluded their investigations into the allegations of harassment and assault against some Nigerians living in China as seen in some viral videos last Thursday. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Wednesday, confirmed this, noting that the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian, had communicated to him the findings of the probe. Gbajabiamila, who did not disclose the findings, stated in a series of tweets that communication would be swift and “due process will be observed even where there are allegations of wrongdoing by citizens of other countries.” The leadership of the House of Representatives on Friday had met with the Chinese Ambassador demanding that there should be an end to inhumane treatment of Nigerians living in China. On Wednesday, Gbajabiamila tweeted that the Chinese ambassador had got back to him on his findings, and the National Assembly would follow up to ensure that Nigerians go about their businesses in that country. Gbajabiamila said, “I am glad the matter of maltreatment of Nigerians in China has been sorted out between both countries. The ambassador has communicated his findings and we hope that moving forward, communication will be swift and clear and due process will be observed even where there are allegations of wrongdoing by citizens of other countries. “It is important that we follow up on this and Nigerians can legitimately go about their business in the People’s Republic of China. I spoke with the acting Consul General, Mr Razak Lawal, whose robust defence of the rights of Nigerians in China went viral and I salute the gentleman diplomat for his dedication to duty and his patriotism.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 