Deji Lambo Two teenagers, identified simply as Dare and Fawas, reportedly drowned on Saturday at a community beach in Epelemeje Orofun, Akodo, Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the victims defied the stay-at-home order to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic by leaving their place of residence in the area to swim in the water. While swimming, it was learnt that the duo drowned and emergency responders had been making efforts to recover their remains. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Sunday that immediately a distress call was received, the marine police team was dispatched in the area, adding that the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, urged parents to monitor the movement of their children during the lockdown. Elkana stated, “On Saturday, April 11, 2020, around 3pm, the police received a distress call that one Dare, 16, and Fawas, 15, both residents of the Epelemeje Orofun community, Akodo, Ibeju-Lekki, allegedly got drowned while playing at the community beach. “The command deployed its marine police team in the area on search and rescue operation. The command advised parents to monitor their children and ensure that they remain at home during this lockdown period.” In another development, a tiler, Adetayo Rasaq, has been arrested by personnel of the command for allegedly sexually molesting a minor in the Agunfoye area of Ikorodu. The 28-year-old Rasaq was said to have lured the victim into his room with biscuit after her father left her in the care of her siblings. Elkana said when Rasaq took the victim to his room, he allegedly had carnal knowledge of her, adding that the victim started complaining of stomach ache after the incident. The PPRO said upon interrogation by her father, she told him that Rasaq had sexually abused her, adding that the father reported the case at the Ikorodu Police Station, where officers were mobilised to arrest the suspect. He stated that the eight-year-old victim had been taken to hospital for examination and treatment, adding that the Gender Unit of the command had taken over the case for further investigation and prosecution of the suspect. Elkana said, “On April 9, 2020, around 8am, the father from the Gegenla area, Agunfoye, Ikorodu, reported at the Ikorodu Police Station that when he returned home, he met his eight-year-old daughter in pains and complaining of discomfort and stomach ache. The father left the girl with her two brothers, aged 10 and 12, as their parents are separated and living apart. “On inquiry, she told her father that on March 31, 2020, one Adetayo Razaq, 28, of Alladi Ijelu Street, Agunfoye, Ikorodu, gave her biscuits and took her to his room, where he had carnal knowledge of her. The victim was taken to hospital for treatment and forensic examination. “The suspect, a tiler and father of two, has been arrested by detectives from the Juvenile Welfare Centre, Ikorodu Police Station. The Commissioner of Police has directed that the case be transferred to the Gender Unit, Command Headquarters, Ikeja, for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution.” Meanwhile, a policeman, Inspector Taloju Martin, has been arrested for extorting a man after impounding his vehicle in the Ago area of Isolo. This development was a reaction to the viral footage that showed Martin counting the sum of N40,000, which he extorted from the victim, after impounding his vehicle for violating the restriction of movement order during the lockdown in the state. Elkana said after the footage was analysed, Martin was identified and arrested, adding that the money had been recovered from him and handed over to the victim. He stated that Martin had been handed over to the Provost Marshal for orderly room trial, adding that the CP had ordered an investigation into the activities of the Ago Police Station. Elkana said, “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a video on the social media in which an inspector was captured counting N40,000 he extorted from the owner of a vehicle he impounded for violating the restriction of movement order. After analysing the video, the culprit was identified and arrested. He is Inspector Taloju Martin attached to the Ago Police Station as Station Officer. “The complainant has also been identified. The money extorted was recovered and handed over to him by the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu. The CP has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Criminal Investigation to carry out an in-depth investigation into the activities of the Ago Police Station as a whole. Meanwhile, the inspector has been handed over to the Provost Marshall for orderly room trial.” He said Odumosu reaffirmed his stance against corrupt practices and impunity, adding that members of the public would be updated on the outcome of the investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  