How true is the claim in some quarters that beneficiaries of the Conditional Cash Transfer programme  in some states got N60,000 each, while those in other states received N20,000 each? There is no payment of N60,000 to anyone and as we speak payments are ongoing. Let me tell you the states where payments are going on this second week of April in the northern part of the country are: Sokoto, Katsina, Kano, Jigawa, Plateau, Adamawa, Taraba, Yobe. People are free to visit any of the centres to confirm this. There is no where N60,000 is being paid. What we pay beneficiaries is N20,000. And these people are the old beneficiaries who we’ve been paying since. The only difference now is that we are paying in advance. They are not a new set of people, rather these are people captured electronically beginning from 2016. Different states came onboard at different times, some in 2016, others in 2017 and 2018. What are you doing about the call that you should pay beneficiaries electronically instead of distributing cash? It is electronic payment that we adopted and there is no way of bringing in a new person without following the process, or changing the amount of money to be paid. It is not possible. As I speak with you now, payment is going on in Abaji, here in Abuja. When you have virtual wallet and you go to a POS, what does the POS give? It gives you cash and that is why you saw that they (beneficiaries) brought their cards to the centres before they could collect cash. It is the card that was used to carry out the transactions before the beneficiaries were able to collect cash. This is because there is no bank that is closer to them where they can cash the money. They can only go to agents who operate POS services. And the reason why we did it that way is to ensure seamless transaction. Remember that some of these beneficiaries are illiterates and if they go alone to the agents and are shortchanged, they may not know. That is why we made it a wallet account where payments are made. Another thing we did was to ensure that the agents are licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Not every POS agent can do the payment, except those licensed by the CBN. So the beneficiaries have their various payment cards that look like an ATM card which the agent swipes through the electronic system and the amount to be paid, beneficiary name and other details are seen. So it is electronic and not cash payment as most people say. If you go to the ATM, what will you collect? It is cash, of course. Would you now say that that payment from the ATM is not electronically generated? It is not cash payment. So are you saying you have never done direct cash payment? How can we do cash payment? How do you monitor it? How do you do audit the trail? Please, we don’t pay cash directly, it is done electronically and can be traced. This is an old programme that has been on since 2016. We’ve been trying to explain this but is like people have their minds made up on what to believe on this matter. It is electronic payment as is done with the ATM, but here it is the POS, for when you go to a POS agent, what you get is cash. That is what we do in this programme, beneficiaries go with their cards to the licensed agents and they are verified electronically before being paid. How did you identify those qualified to become beneficiaries of this programme? Members of any particular community where the programme is going on are the ones who by themselves identify those who are poor and vulnerable in their midst. So the team moves from one community to the other and the community members determine what poverty means in their own village and people who fall within that their own definition. We are not talking of academic definition of poverty, rather we are talking about the community members themselves deciding that in their own village this is what poverty means. Then they now identify people who by their own perception fall into this category. We now collect these names from the community. How has this impacted on beneficiaries? The beneficiaries have benefitted so much from this programme going by reports we receive from them. Many of them now take the little stipends they get to send their children to school, start petty trade, visit clinics and carryout and do other things . It might also interest you to know that we don’t only give money. This is a cash-plus programme, we give them money and we also train them to be self-sustaining, how to take care of their hygiene, businesses, nutrition and environmental sanitation. It is a full package for the family. How many persons are receiving this payment nationally? The number of people currently on our own register is 1.2million and it will interest you to know that we are going to enroll into the programme another one million people this year. And every month they are paid N5,000 but we pay every two months because of the logistics of getting this money to them. You and I know that where the poor people reside, there are no banking infrastructure there. So you cannot pay them through the bank. We pay through the mobile money operator and it is electronic payment and we need to pay these mobile money operators. So, the more the amount to collect, the more we pay. When did you start these payments and in how many states? We started paying in 2016 with eight states. The question now will be why eight states? They are the ones that were ready. States came onboard at different times and there are conditions that the states must meet before we begin the transfer. The state must establish its office because it is the office that will be implementing payment. We are just to give direction, guidance and supervision. When there is no state office we cannot do the transfer. It is the state office at Local Government level that move from one village to another. You can imagine how many villages are in a local government or the whole country. Therefore the structure is that we have federal, state and local governments. How many states are currently involved in the programme? We have 34 states onboard now. The states that have yet to join are already in the process of coming onboard the programme and that will be concluded as soon as possible. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  