Bode Adediji is a former President, Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers. He tells MAUREEN IHUA-MADUENYI that the real estate industry has been comatose for the past few years The real estate industry has been struggling for some time now. As a stakeholder, what is your assessment of its current state? Frankly speaking, the real estate industry has remained in a coma since the emergence of a serious economic recession some three years ago and with all its observable tragic consequences which are asset wastage, mounting housing deficit, unemployment, stagnation and crime, among others. Even before COVID-19, the sector has not been healthy. Many other sectors were able to navigate and recover from the recession of three years ago but real estate is still suffering. Without really exaggerating, there are sectors that have been crippled by COVID-19 such as tourism and travel industry, restaurants and hotel; but in real estate, whether we are buying, selling, renting or leasing depends on the purchasing power of the populace. Once a large section of the population is suffering from low purchasing power, then real estate is doomed. For now, we don’t know what is going to happen to the financial sector of the economy; real estate is a capital intensive product, where there is no mortgage or lending to the real sector, then the construction industry will be in trouble which will be tantamount to loss of income and employment among others. So one can say that one of the sectors that will be impacted by COVID-19 ultimately is the real estate sector. Whenever real estate suffers a setback, it takes some time for it to bounce back. In this instance, how long do you think it will take for the industry to recover from the COVID-19 shock? Before COVID-19, some of us have been saying that it will take up to 2023 for the real estate industry to recover; that’s three years from now. But the situation now is that things that can make any sector to get revamped, we lack the capacity to put them in place in Nigeria. We do not have the employment capacity to pump money into the economy in such a way that all the critical sectors are revived. If you look at countries in the western world, they can budget billions to assist those who have no jobs; regularise lending patterns and others which can make recovery time definite. But in our case, we are a highly borrowing nation. Even the countries that should assist us are burdened with crisis, and there is no political will to look at the economy and focus on reducing expenditure. If you look at Nigeria’s budget, recurrent expenditure is always bigger than capital expenditure which is a big problem. However, the hope we have is that even in the past, government had been behaving the way they behaved because things were normal. In a period of crisis like this, we expect that they are going to revamp the economy through a thinking system, policy and programmes. Once we have these things, Nigeria will not be a losing case. We should also know that regardless of what has happened in the past, this is a highly endowed country in resources, human capital. The only thing lacking is political or governance structure. Once we have that at local government, state and federal level, then we are okay. There have been several initiatives to address some of the issues in the industry, but despite these efforts by both the public and private sectors, Nigeria’s housing crisis still seems insurmountable. What do you think stakeholders are not doing right? In my candid evaluation of the government’s initiatives in housing, although laudable in some aspects, one can conclude that it is tantamount to an attempt to cure cancer disease with panadol while that of the private sector can be described as a drop in the ocean. The stage at which we are now, Nigeria’s housing crisis cannot be successfully tackled through the repetitive conventional approach of both the government and the private sector. Revolutionary policies, programmes and actions are inevitable. Even our collective understanding of the nature, magnitude and consequences of Nigeria’s housing crises remains foggy and pretentious despite the massive volume of literature on the subject. Imagine if the present coronavirus global onslaught were to have started in Nigeria with our overcrowding housing situation, uninhibited social contacts and deplorable medical infrastructure and with 200 million population?  Are you saying that partnerships between the government and private sector have not had any impact on housing provision? I haven’t seen any profile of a successful partnership between government and the private sector except in some rare instances such as the mobile telecommunication industry; not in the housing and the construction industry. Otherwise, why has there not been a single homegrown five-star construction and engineering company meritoriously and successfully handling mega projects in Nigeria and abroad that are wholly indigenous after 60 years of independence? The fundamental defects in our attempted public-private-partnership templates can be attributed to a variety of factors such as wholesome imposition of foreign concepts, populism, schism, prevalence of round pegs in square holes phenomenon, and short-term approach mentality. This is why most things that succeed ordinarily elsewhere in the world keep failing in our own dear country despite our undeniable educational and professional pedigree. For instance, the internship concept.  With these problems, is there any hope that the industry will one day take its place as a leading employer of labour in the country? Yes, there is a ray of hope but only if and when two things take place simultaneously: emergence of visionary and capable leadership right from the local government level to the federal level, and the arousal of people’s consciousness as well as mobilisation to collectively tackle the problem of housing. It is only a matter of time, if you look at the structure of Nigeria, it is a country that one day will understand the importance of the real sector in general and real estate sector in particular, knowing full well that oil cannot give our people employment. The only sectors that can create employment are real estate, manufacturing and agriculture. Once you do not engineer growth process in those sectors, you are wasting your time as a nation. One day, the attention that government will pay to the real sector in general and real estate sector in particular will be on the front burner not at the back. Apart from housing deficit, one of the biggest problems facing the industry and the country at large is building collapse. What roles do you think the government, professionals and individuals can play to end or reduce its prevalence? There has to be a collective effort to address the problem of building collapse. Also, the problem will continue to occur and even escalate for as long as the present mindset of all the stakeholders, particularly that of the government officials and the relevant professionals in the built environment remains unchanged. It is even more reprehensible that in Nigeria until a stream of tragic phenomena begins to affect both the high and the lowly, the government appears to find it difficult to ponder, develop and deploy workable and sustainable solutions. Some stakeholders have suggested that building collapse offenders should be jailed to serve as deterrent to others. Do you share this view? Jailing the building collapse offenders cannot solve the problem just as the execution of narcotic drugs offenders hardly deters the criminals. COVID-19 pandemic is expected to have devastating effects on the world economy and businesses. What impact do you think it would have on housing and construction in Nigeria? This is a world tragedy that we should all work and pray to God for solution. Nigeria was already anticipating another onset of economic recession before the emergence of COVID-19. Since the performance of the housing and the construction industry is interwoven with the health of the overall economy and being a capital intensive sector, the prognosis for the entire real estate sector is indeed gloomy and ominous. The Federal Government plans some kind of intervention for businesses to cushion the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. What kind of help do you think the real estate and construction industry will need? Many countries have begun to find solutions to mitigate the dire consequences of COVID-19, particularly on their real sector by rolling out such measures as special budgetary allocation, loan liberalisation, suspension of loan capital and interest repayment and salary advances. But Nigeria’s case is different and pathetic because prior to this outbreak, our economy has been cash-strapped; the price of crude oil on which the economy depends has continued to tumble; our loan portfolio has become humongous, while our recurrent expenditure remains sky-bound. There are only two ways out; the government should reach out to and bail the majority of our populace who are already down and most vulnerable to the economic perils of COVID-19. More importantly, the government should leverage this impending tragedy to invoke the political will which is currently in short supply to roll out revolutionary measures that will peacefully and speedily overhaul our political, social and economic architecture for the good of all Nigerians. Through such a revolutionary package, Nigeria may, among other breakthroughs, truly become the food basket of Africa within the next five years and thereby banish our world-acclaimed legacy of being the poverty capital of the world. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.