•Crude price falls to $29 ’Femi Asu Nigeria should not expect to see a significant increase in crude oil prices anytime soon despite the production cut deal by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, industry experts have said. The group, known as OPEC+, agreed on Sunday to reduce output by 9.7 million barrels per day, just below the initial plan of 10 million bpd, for May-June after a compromise with Mexico. The international oil benchmark, Brent crude, fell by $1.78 to $29.96 per barrel as of 5.50pm Nigerian time on Tuesday. Experts, who spoke with our correspondent in separate interviews on Tuesday, said the cut was not enough to prop up prices as supply glut remained in the market. An energy economist, Prof. Adeola Adenikinju, said, “The glut in the oil market is much higher than the amount to be cut, and there is even an uncertainty around the world economy now and demand is not picking up. “The market is still not satisfied that OPEC+ has reduced output enough to be able to create balance in the market. Some estimate is that supply should be reduced by over 20 million bpd to see a significant reaction on the price side.” Adenikinju, who is a member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Central Bank of Nigeria, said there was still uncertainty on the implementation of the OPEC+ deal. He stressed the need for Nigeria to reduce its dependence on crude oil, saying, “It is high time that Nigeria restructured its economy in the light of this global development. We can no longer afford to depend on just oil. Things have to change.” An energy expert and Partner at Bloomfied Law Practice, Dr Ayodele Oni, said demand for crude oil had not increased because of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic which had forced many countries to declare lockdowns. “The quantity already in the market for sale is so much. So, even if they cut output, that quantity need to be first mopped up. The questions are: are people able to mop it up? Is there sufficient demand? Is there sufficient productive activity? Usually, there is need for sufficient productive activity to buy crude in large quantity.” He noted that Nigeria had slashed its oil price benchmark to $30 per barrel from $57, saying, “If we don’t have sufficient demand despite the cut in production, that is a bigger problem.” The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, had said that after the cut, Nigeria would be producing 1.412 million bpd in May and June, in addition to condensate production of between 360,000 and 460,000 barrels per day exempted from OPEC curtailment. According to him, it is expected that the historic intervention will see crude oil prices rebound by at least $15 per barrel in the short term, and the price rebound may translate to additional revenues of not less than $2.8bn for Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  