Ogbonnaya Ikokwu and Hindi Livinus There was confusion at the Tonimas Junction Market in Osisioma Ngwa Council Area, Abia State, on Tuesday as the state task force on COVID-19 was attacked by hoodlums in the area. It was learnt the task force visited the market located along the Enugu-Port Harcourt expressway, following the refusal of the traders to obey government’s directive on the lockdown. The Transition Committee Chairman, Osisioma Ngwa LGA, Dr Ikechukwu Nwabeke, said, “The Chairman, state Task force on COVID-19, Dr Solomon Ogunji,  and his team visited Tonimas Market to sensitise the traders on the need to comply with the government’s order to shut markets. “When we got to the area, the chairman started his address; some hoodlums were singing, ‘give us money, give us money’. Others started smashing the windscreens and headlights of the vehicles we came with.  We were not even on enforcement, but on sensitisation. We had visited Afo Ule, Ahia Nkwo, Ekeakpara and other markets.” He dismissed reports that the task force destroyed the traders’ wares as false and urged the traders to comply with the order to shut markets in their interest. “How could the task force destroy the goods of the traders when it was not even on enforcement? We had visited other markets without incidents. What happened was that some hoodlums joined the traders to attack the task force. They couldn’t let the task force address them. We left the area until the security arrived. So, there is no truth in any trader telling you that the task force destroyed their wares,” Nwabeke said. Meanwhile, no fewer than ten persons were said to have sustained injuries as police tried to stop a wedding rite in Fufore town in the Fufore Local Government Area of Adamawa State for defying the state’s COVID-19 lockdown order. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “The crisis started as a result of the wedding event, Ajo-wedding donation, which took place in Fufore town. “While the programme was about to end, a police patrol team arrived, warning people to leave. They started firing teargas unprovoked. ‘’Surprisingly, they (policemen) carted away all the money that were realized for the couples, beating us up as well as searching our pockets.” When contacted, the police spokesman in the state, DSP Suleiman Nguroje, said,  “I am yet to get details but will get back as soon as possible.’’ He had yet to get back as of time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.