Success Nwogu, Tobi Aworinde and Hindi Livinus The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has condoled with the Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, over the death of his mother, Hajiya Fatima Umaru Badami (68). Buhari, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, commiserated with the family of the governor, the government and people of the state, saying he received the sad news with shock. The President enjoined Fintiri and others in mourning to be consoled by the knowledge that “she lived a godly life devoted to service to her immediate community and the less-privileged in society.” Also, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, equally expressed sadness over the death via his verified personal twitter handle @atiku. He said in a tweet, “I have spoken to Gov Ahmadu Fintiri and expressed my condolences and that of my family over the loss of his dear mother, Hajiya Fatimah Umaru. I pray that Allah will forgive her sins and grant her Aljannah Firdaus. Ameen.” In separate condolence messages, Governors Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto), Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom) and Mai Mala Buni (Yobe), called the bereaved to   register their condolences. Others include Imam Mohammed, People Democratic Party’s governorship l candidate in the last Borno State governorship elections. The immediate past Governor of Adamawa State, Senator Jibrilla Bindow also sent his condolences. Earlier, a statement by the Director General, Media and Communications, Adamawa State Government House, Solomon Kumangar, announced the death of the governor’s mother. The statement said, “The death of the governor’s mother, coming at this critical moment creates a huge vacuum not only for the immediate family, but the entire state.” She died at the Federal Medical Centre, Yola, the Adamawa State capital, in the early hours of Wednesday, while undergoing treatment for an undisclosed protracted illness. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com