The fast spread of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic around the world has created unprecedented outcomes in the global economy. We have seen the negative impact of this outbreak on Nations with well-developed economic systems. In the United States, for example, the number of people filing unemployment claims has now hit a record high, signalling an end to a decade of expansion for one of the world’s largest economies. The travel industry has also been severely battered, with airlines cutting flights, laying off staff as travellers and tourists cancel their business and holiday trips as a result of lockdowns around the world. In China, where the virus emanated from, industrial production, sales, and investment all fell in the first two months of the year, compared with the same period in 2019. The restrictions by Government authorities have affected the supply chains of big organizations. Likewise, oil prices have slumped to unprecedented levels since 2001, prompting a revision of the 2020 budget. Nigeria’s President also warned, during a meeting with the Economic Advisory Council (EAC), that the outbreak of coronavirus has become a significant threat to Nigeria’s economy. This current situation is being accepted as the new reality, and Nations all around the globe have started taking measures for readjustment of their economic structure. The question now is, what plans are you making as an individual? This period calls for proper financial planning. We need now, more than ever before to realign our financial plans to survive any crisis. If you have a sound financial plan at this time, it will proffer clarity on how every decision you make affects the achievement of the year’s objectives. Such a plan will help you adjust quickly to life changes while still keeping your life’s long goals in good stead. Here are three critical factors that you should bear in mind as you prepare to have a financial plan in place: Ensure you have emergency funds: One should have emergency funds that can cater to your basic needs for at least three to six months. It will help to ensure that you have enough liquidity to fend for you and your loved ones during financially challenging times. Having a plan in place assures of financial security, even in the face of temporary setbacks, like losing a job or being unable to make a living because of a lockdown as we have now. Focus on what you can control: In preparing a financial plan, focus on the things you can execute. Have a realistic budget with adequate protection for your investment plans. Also, never let your commitment to the long-term goals to be by these changes, instead adjust today’s expenditure to safeguard your future. It is also smart to seek the guidance of a professional financial adviser to put together a perfect plan. Get a Comprehensive Policy Cover: Insurance is an excellent way to proactively put in place cushions against financial setbacks due to uncertainties around us. Having a suitable insurance cover in place could be the wisest of all your financial plans. Take the Wimbledon Tennis Competition, for example. They “reportedly paid $2 million a year for pandemic insurance for the last 17 years (Total: $34 Million)”, revealed Darren Rovell, a reputed sports journalist. “For this year’s cancellation as a result of the Coronavirus, Wimbledon will reportedly receive $141 million from the policy.” While other competitions that have not put in place insurance covers are reeling from the COVID19 related losses, Wimbledon is on the verge of an impressive pay receipt. This is where Leadway Assurance comes in. The leading Nigerian insurer, with five decades of experience in its belt, has designed relatable insurance policies to cover you from falling into adverse financial position as a result of a plethora of risks to households and businesses. The risks can be activated by unforeseen and unplanned unpalatable events, such as thefts, accidents, fire outbreaks, floods, storms, theft, and other special perils. To learn more on how to put a smart financial plan in place, please call our team of professional financial and risk management advisors on 08088578050 or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. 