AS the Lagos State Government increased the hazard allowance of health workers in the state public service from N5,000 to N25,000 last week, the Federal Government is also attending to the needs of the COVID-19 warriors at this critical time. The federal deal includes an increase of 50 per cent as hazard allowance to healthcare workers, 40 per cent as consolidated salary, 20 per cent increase for at-risk workers and 10 per cent for non-core health workers. It has further agreed to provide insurance cover for workers, including compensation benefits. These measures are commendable. Earlier, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), struck a conciliatory tone with health sector workers during his second nationwide broadcast on the coronavirus pandemic. Praising them as heroes, Buhari added, “We will forever remain grateful for your sacrifice during this very difficult time.” Bearing in mind that the HCWs have been in the frontline in Nigeria’s fight against the COVID-19 pandemic that has claimed thousands of lives globally, they deserve national applause. Other states should emulate the federal and Lagos State examples. But beyond that presidential appreciation and the recent financial rewards, the President and the governors should not sidestep the crass rot that underlies the country’s health sector. The sector’s operating environment is putrid. There is no coordinated primary healthcare structure for a country of 200 million people. Patients outnumber doctors at a ratio of 1:3,500. This is against the 1:600 doctor/patient ratio recommended by the World Health Organisation. It makes the work environment a grind. All over the world, it is said that the HCWs are taking care of their communities without adequate personal protective equipment. They are risking their own health and the health of their families to do their work. Hospitals lack critical modern equipment that aid recovery. Here, the premier tertiary hospital in Ibadan, the University College Hospital, maintains 75 generators to power its operations because of Nigeria’s unusual electricity crisis. The shortage of trained personnel is exacerbated by the brain drain syndrome. Funding is appalling. The remuneration of the HCWs remains a sore point, which the pandemic has further exposed. At the beginning of April, the doctors, nurses and support staff treating the over 40 patients at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada, complained that the Federal Government owed them N30 million in allowances. Ridiculously, the nurses’ union in Plateau State says that the monthly hazard allowance for their members is N1,000! To estimate the enormous sacrifice of the frontline health personnel, that amount is below the N37 million used in buying a car for each member of the National Assembly. Dramatically, the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, told a parliamentary inquest then that he was not aware of any hazard allowance for the medical personnel in the frontline. His gaffe coincided with another one by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, doubling as the head of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 that he was unaware that the health infrastructure was in such a dilapidated state. It is hoped that such insensitivity at the highest level of government will wane. The Lancet, the respected medical journal, says in the global response, the safety of the HCWs must be ensured. Adequate provision of the PPE is just the first step; other practical measures must be considered, including cancelling non-essential events to prioritise resources; provision of food, rest, and family support; and psychological support. Presently, the HCWs are every country’s most valuable resource. But here, the PPE, a standard gear for medical workers in the coronavirus management, is a luxury. It is not surprising then that early in April, the teaching hospitals in Ibadan, Lagos, Benin and Ilorin sent about 100 doctors and nurses exposed to the virus from the cases they are treating on a two-week isolation. This raises the stake among the others, who might fear the risk of also contracting the deadly virus. When this happens, hospitals “scramble to find replacements,” said the WHO, which estimated that 3,000 health workers globally had contracted COVID-19 in the course of treating patients. In Nigeria, finding replacements is a huge burden. Ultimately, this makes some HCWs pay the supreme price in the line of duty. Already, doctors have been counted among the dead in the current outbreak. In the fight against the Ebola virus disease in 2014, Stella Adadevoh and Justina Ejelonu died after treating the index case. In West Africa, more than 350 health care workers died while battling Ebola. Thirty-seven doctors and nurses have been reportedly infected as of Week 14 in the 2020 Lassa fever outbreak, which has claimed 188 lives out of 963 suspected cases. Regularly, overzealous or corrupt security agents extort money from healthcare staff in the course of their duty during this lockdown. They also suffer grievous danger from patients who hide their medical history. New guidelines by the Irish health authorities state that medical staff cannot be required to assist a patient who has tested positive for the COVID-19 virus with an aerosol generating procedure without the PPE as they would be directly exposed to aerosolised particles.“In fact, there are good reasons why the HCW (healthcare workers) should not participate, however well-intentioned they may be, because putting themselves at serious risk of infection is not in accordance with the goals of public health practice in a pandemic,” the guidelines state. The Lancet says worldwide, as millions of people stay at home to minimise transmission of coronavirus 2, health-care workers prepare to do the exact opposite. They will go to clinics and hospitals, putting themselves at high risk from COVID-2019. It is argued that the State has an obligation, under the ethical principle of reciprocity, to ensure that healthcare workers are appropriately protected from risk when discharging their duty of care. Various governments should therefore provide them with the PPEs and other essential medical supplies, which will enable them to offer unqualified service, in line with the WHO guidelines. Sanitation is a sore point in our hospitals. Many do not have running water or toilet facilities. This is not difficult to surmount. Our governments should cut down on their lavish lifestyles, provide good sanitation and hygiene at public hospitals. The frontline soldiers against COVID-19 deserve protection. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.  