Samuel Awoyinfa Nigeria’s first full HD television, Hi-Impact TV, is set to join the growing list of Nigerian stations to transmit on the United Kingdom’s popular cable platform, Sky, this April. The channel which commenced operations in June 2018 indicated its interest to transmit in the UK by applying for a broadcast licence from the broadcast regulatory agency in the UK – Ofcom. After due diligence to ensure the channel met the broadcast standards expected , Ofcom approved the proposal. Conveying this approval through the grant of a broadcast licence to the channel in a letter dated March 23rd, and addressed to the Chairman of Solution Media & Infotech, Prince Adeyanju Lipede, the Director of Content, Standard, Licensing and Entertainment Ofcom, Mr Tony Close, said this direction was with immediate effect. Expressing his delight on the licence to transmit in the UK via the Sky platform,  Lipede said Hi-Impact TV would  be running from Lagos and London with the current template but this time with more contents from other African countries to make for an all-inclusive programming. “We will air a lot of cultural documentaries from South Africa, Kenya, Ghana and other African countries to show the best side of the African heritage” Lipede said. According to the firm, Hi-Impact TV is a 24-hour station which transmits high quality entertainment and educational programmes from different parts of the world. It is also said to be currently on the Eutelsat 7WA satellite reaching 15,400,000 households and with its expansion this April 2020, has a potential to reach an additional 23,900,000 people. Sky subscribers could watch Hi-Impact TV on channel 184 from April 20, 2020, it stated. Other stations said to be currently on the Sky platform are TVC, Channels, Arise TV and ROKTV. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  