Launaea taraxacifolia is in the family Asteraceae; it is an erect herb which perennates through its rhizome. It can attain a height of almost two metres with many stands arising from the rhizomatous rootstock. The plant is characterised by the possession of milky latex in all its organs.  The leaves are in a basal rosette and are alternate; they are narrow, sessile, deeply-lobed and finely-serrated at the margins. Much of the plant height consists of the flowering scape with capitula bearing deep-yellow florets in a paniculate formation. The florets are all ray and bisexual and the seeds are equipped with hairy pappus for dispersal. This vegetable specie is called Yanrin in Yoruba and it has a place as one of the special pot herbs.  In Ekiti State, it is used to fortify the version of moinmoin cooked without oil known as ekuru, a very filling meal which aids bowel movement. When the sole vegetable soup is eaten cold, it tastes like a soup cooked with palm oil and the oil has already solidified. This effect is due to its high content of oil; no wonder it is said to be high in palmitic acid, the most common type of saturated fatty acid found in animals, plants and microorganisms. It is better eaten when still hot. For those who do not know this vegetable, that is the picture on my logo. This plant is commonly used as leafy vegetable, soup and sauces. It is commonly found in West Africa and used in the management of many diseases including cardiovascular, respiratory, haematological, endocrine and metabolic diseases. It fights migraines and headache, acts as a painkiller, supports psychological health, treats urinary tract infections, fights atherosclerosis, treats insomnia, improves skin conditions, helps maintain body weight and treats-premenstrual syndrome. These are the highlights of the ethnobotanical uses of L. taraxacifolia. When the leaves of L. taraxacifolia and Vernonia amygdalina are squeezed together in water, the extracts are used to treat measles as drink and skin application; the leaves of L. taraxacifolia are ground with the fruits of xylopia aethiopica and mixed in black soap for the treatment of skin diseases.  The plant is burnt into ashes to prepare a vegetable-salt. The leaves mixed with fine ash are rubbed onto the sores of yaws in Ghana and the boiled leaves are applied to the head of a newly-born baby if the bones have not knit together properly. The limbs of backward children are rubbed with the leaves in Ghana to induce them to walk. To determine the antibacterial constituent of Launaea taraxacifolia, a research was carried out at the Lagos State University. The extract of this vegetable inhibited the growth of staphylococcus sp. It is recommendable for the treatment of staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus than other microorganisms. The conclusion of the research was that the extract has proven to be a vital tool in the fight against harmful microorganisms and it has also proven through the antibiotics sensitivity test to be effective. The antimicrobial activities demonstrated by the extracts support the scientific basis for the use of Launaea taraxacifolia. Furthermore, the finding of this work has justified the use of this plant in ethno-medicinal treatment of certain illnesses and ailments which are caused by micro-organisms. Another paper captured information on Launaea taraxacifolia from 1985 to 2018. The search revealed that the leaves of the plant possess nutritional/pharmacological effects on diseases such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, cancer, malaria, bacterial infections and arthritis. The leaf has been shown to be a rich source of phyto-constituents such as flavonoids, phenolic acids, tannins, alkaloids, glycosides, coumarins, triterpenoids, ascorbic acid, lycopene, and β-carotene. The most abundant chemical components found were palmitic acid, methyl-11-octadecenoate, erythritol, glycerol, linoleic acid methyl ester and phytol. A long chain alcohol, 1-hexacosanol, has also been discovered to be present in the leaves. Research over the years has revealed that Launaea taraxacifolia possesses important pharmacological activities. These include antioxidant, hypolipidaemic, antilipid peroxidation, neuroprotective, anticancer, antimalarial, antiarthritic/anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, cardioprotective and DNA-protecting activities. The leaves are eaten fresh as a salad or cooked in soups and sauces. The leaves are fed to cows-in-milk in northern Nigeria to increase milk yield. It is fed to sheep and goats to produce multiple births. The mineral content of the leaves is relatively high (21·8%). Another research was carried out on fresh leaves of Launaea taraxacifolia in Kaduna State. The leaves, flowers and seeds of the plant were sent to the Herbarium Unit of the Department of Botany, Faculty of Life Sciences, Ahmadu Bello University, (ABU), Zaria. The leaves were dried in open air in the laboratory to a constant weight. Thirty-five adult male and nulliparous female rats compromising 30 females and 5 males, weighing about 120–190 g were obtained from the Animal House of the Department of Veterinary Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, ABU, Zaria. The conclusion is that Launaea taraxacifolia and resveratrol independently enhanced milk production in lactating rats by stimulating hyperprolactinaemia (presence of abnormally-high prolactin). The combination of L. taraxacifolia and resveratrol, however, increased milk production through increased oxytocin release which acts on myoepithelial cells of the mammary glands to stimulate milk ejection reflex. A research on Launaea taraxacifolia at the department of Medical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, College of Health Sciences, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State and the department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Obafemi Awolowo University, came out with the conclusion that the leaf extract of Launaea taraxacifolia has ameliorative and preventive effect on hepatotoxicity of lead poisoning thereby supporting its ethno-medicinal use in the management of poisoning. In another research, the conclusion reached is that the leaves of L. taraxacifolia  is  a  potential  source  of  anti-inflammatory  agents  and  thus provides  the  pharmacological evidence to support its use in the management of inflammatory conditions. More benefits Launaea taraxacifolia Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   