Rasheed Bisiriyu Hyundai looks set to stun the auto world with a new generation Tucson as it is said to be putting finishing touches to the compact crossover sport utility vehicle. Although no specific date has been given for the launch, there are indications that it will be rolled out in August. Coming about five years after the current generation Tucson was launched, the SUV’s designer has said the styling will “freak out” people. The Tucson is a compact crossover SUV produced by the South Korean manufacturer since 2004 and it is named after the city of Tucson, Arizona. Hyundai said the Tucson generally has been designed to make driving safer, more convenient and ultimately more rewarding. The vehicle comes with advance safety, premium interior, smart infotainment and hi-tech features. A report by an online auto journal, motor1.com, says the rendering of the 2021 Tucson is heavily based not only on the recent spy shots with camouflaged prototypes, but also the Vision T concept unveiled last November at the Los Angeles Auto Show. “While we’re usually not that anxious to see the exterior design of a new crossover, the Tucson is an exception since the styling changes will be radical,” it states. The report quotes the Vice President of Styling at the Hyundai Design Centre, Sangyup Lee, as saying about a year ago that the revamped model’s appearance would make people “freak out.” Hyundai’s Product Planning Manager, Andrew Tuatahi, said in October 2019 that the 2021 Tucson would be “very interesting visually.” The report by motor1.com expects the next-generation Tucson to come with extraordinary design and features backing up its claims with the auto company’s recent striking designs such as the Elantra and Sonata sedans, adding, “We believe Hyundai has prepared something special for the next-gen Tucson. “The company’s other crossover offerings are not exactly bland either, with the Venue and Palisade bringing a breath of fresh air, while the Santa Fe also has an interesting design due to be updated soon. Factor in the funky designs of the Kona and Nexo models and we can all agree Hyundai’s crossovers are anything but bland.” It says Tucson has already confirmed the model will later this year get the hybrid and plug-in hybrid powertrains, noting that a warm N Line version already exists in some parts of the world. Hyundai is reportedly planning a full-fat N model with at least 340 horsepower for a 0-62 mph (0-100 km/h) in under six seconds. It also says a potential Tucson N will likely be launched in the second half of 2021 or early 2022. Meanwhile, Hyundai Motor Company has said about 1.21 million of its vehicles will benefit from the Hyundai CARE, a warranty extension policy, recently launched vehicles worldwide. According to the company, the programme aims to support Hyundai customers who may face difficulties in getting vehicle maintenance due to restricted access to service centres during the COVID-19 pandemic. It stated that the programme would ensure that all Hyundai vehicles with original warranty that expired between March 1 and April 30, 2020 would benefit from the warranty extension of up to three months until May 31. “All warranties that are originally due to expire in May will also be guaranteed coverage until the end of the month. “More than 1.21 million Hyundai vehicles in 175 countries will be eligible for the Hyundai CARE warranty extension.” It said the decision came amid a global reaction to the outbreak of COVID-19, which had caused many countries to take various precautionary measures including closing non-essential facilities. Hyundai’s Vice-President of Middle East and Africa, Bang Sun Jeong, said, “We appreciate that many of our customers may have limited or no access to vehicle servicing during these extraordinary times. “With Hyundai CARE, the company expects to help address any concerns customers may have about being unable to visit a service centre to get vehicle maintenance or warranty repairs during government-imposed lockdown.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  