Grace Agada There are two paths to retirement employees must take. The first path is the slow path and the second path is the fast path. The slow path to retirement is the path that forces employees out of the system in their sixties and hangs their financial destiny on the breakable promises of the government. It is also the path that squeezes employees into a trim budget after they are left with only a reminder of their bodies. This slow path to retirement is the long road to freedom. Employees who toll this path will miss the corporate world. They will miss the corporate world because it represents the best part of their lives. Taking the slow path to retirement is not only choosing to fail but failing to plan for a better life outside the corporate world. The fast path, in contrast, is different. It is the accelerated path to Freedom. It is the path where employees choose to retire early and take along their best self with them. Employees who take this path create a beautiful life for themselves. Outside the corporate world. They are able to do this because they plan ahead. They plan for a blissful retirement before their corporate career life is over. And as a result, they create a future that is bigger and better than their past. If you are in your twenties, thirties or forties and you want to reserve the best part of your life for yourself, doing what you love and making an unlimited amount of money, the fast path to early retirement is the best option for you. What then is early retirement? Early retirement is retirement that is based on voluntary exit inspired by financial stability and not age. It is the ability to buy oneself the option of exiting the corporate world without financial fear. Employees who retire early create a solid financial foundation for themselves. Transfer their dependence on salary to an alternate source of passive income. And are able to hands-off salary at an early age. Early retirement is thus not about going to rest or having plenty of idle time to nurse weak and damaged bodies. It is about beginning a new life that launches a person into unlimited income opportunities. And about building a portfolio of income that can fund a person’s dreams. When employees retire early, they give themselves permission to rejuvenate. Pursue bigger goals and live the life of their dreams. How can employees retire early? To retire early employees must do three things. First, they must develop an early retirement Mentality. Second, they must create a solid financial foundation they can depend on. Third, they must Prevent health crises and stay out of the hospital. Below I expand on each point in detail. Developing an early retirement mentality demands a different kind of mindset. That is different from traditional ways of thinking. While the traditional way is to follow the slow path to retirement. The non-traditional way is to follow the fast path to retirement. Following the fast path means stand out and being different. Being different means having a different way of thinking and mindset. Mindsets like remaining loyal in a job. And slaving away your time and health on the long queue of the corporate ladder. In hopes that you will one day climb the desired position is the slow path to retirement mentality. To retire early you must see a job for what it is. A tool that launches you to your best life. All effort and focus must thus be channeled towards detaching yourself from the emotional chains of the corporate ladder. And the lure of remaining under the safety of another man finances. And redirect your focus towards creating your own financial safety net outside the corporate world. This is what developing an early retirement mentality mean. Next, you need to prepare financially. You need a solid financial foundation to exit the corporate world. This foundation must be able to carry the weight of your bills. And support you through your low active income period. Without this financial foundation, it is hard for you to retire early or develop the confidence to pursue bigger income goals. Next, you need to keep your body healthy. Through Preventive and Restorative measures. Working until you are sixty exposes your body to extended punches of stress and unhealthy foods. This brittle your immune system, and exposes you to more health attacks in retirement. When health is attacked every goal is sacrificed to restore health. It is hard to achieve financial stability when you are sick at the same time. The goal for employees who want to save their bodies is to retire early. So that only a small part of their lives is exposed to unhealthy working conditions. Keeping your health intact while pursuing financial goals is the best recipe for early retirement While retirement will be the most difficult and challenging time for many employees, you can choose to make it the best part of your life. You have the option today to enter into retirement beaming with pride and bypassing the long queue of people. Waiting for pension money. You also have the option of letting pension be the smallest amount of money you will earn in retirement. If you can create your retirement experience today why worry about what will happen in retirement? Your goal should be to create a life that depends less on salary depend less on the government.  And more on a reliable portfolio of passive income. That you can control. This is the only way to be truly free. Retirement is coming, whether you are ready for it or not You can prepare now or face the sting of late retirement. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com