Olufemi Atoyebi, Tobi Aworinde, Tukur Muntari, Ted Odogwu and Wale Oyewale The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Monday said the bodies of persons, who died of coronavirus, were not infectious. The National Coordinator of the task force, Dr Sani Aliyu, stated this at a media briefing of the PTF in Abuja. At the briefing, Aliyu and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, apologised for some PTF members’ violation of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control’s protocols at the burial of the Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, on Saturday. Members of the task force, who attended the crowded burial, have been heavily criticised for disregarding the NCDC protocols for burial of corpses of people that die of COVID-19. Dignitaries at the burial included Mustapha,  Aliyu; Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama. Kyari, who had been undergoing treatment at the First Cardiology Consultants Hospital, Lagos died of COVID-19 on Friday and was buried at Gudu cemetery, Abuja on Saturday. On Monday, the National Coordinator of the PTF,  Aliyu,  assured the public that the task force would continue to follow its guidelines. He added that the NCDC guidelines for COVID-19 were reflective of the World Health Organisation’s guidelines. Aliyu said, “I would like to further clarify the issue of COVID-19 and burial processes. Contrary to what is on social media, the late chief of staff’s body was properly prepared for burial, according to the NCDC guidelines and the Islamic faith. “The bodies of persons with COVID-19,  as stated by the WHO guidelines and I quote, ‘Except in cases of viral haemorrhagic fever and cholera, dead bodies are generally not infectious.’ “To date, there is no evidence of persons having become infected from exposure to the bodies of persons who have died of  COVID-19.’” Stop inter-state movements, FG tells govs Aliyu decried the continued large movements across state borders and called on state governments to put a stop to them as such activities contributed to the increase in COVID-19 cases. Kyari’s burial: We are sorry, says PTF The Chairman of the task force, Mustapha, said the PTF members’ violation of the NCDC’s protocols was regrettable. The NCDC, in its interim guidelines for the safe management of a dead body, states, “In the event, a ceremony is held, the number of attendees should be limited. “The ceremony should be held in a well-ventilated structure, attendees should be advised on social distancing throughout the event, ensuring practice of hand and respiratory hygiene.” Although most attendees at Kyari’s burial wore face masks, they stood less than two metres apart as prescribed by the NCDC protocols. Following the attendees’ disregard for social distancing rules,  the Presidency on Sunday ordered them to stay away from the Presidential Villa for 14 days. It also stated that journalists, who covered the event, should not come to the Villa in the next 14 days. Mustapha said the violation was “regrettable.”  He stated, “The PTF recognises regrettably the unintentional violation of the principles and protocols that form the core of our messaging to Nigerians at the funeral of the late chief of staff. “These principles, for emphasis, include the guidelines provided on mass gatherings, social distancing, personal hygiene and restriction of movement. “Lessons have been learnt and appropriate measures have been taken to close all gaps. We assure all Nigerians of their safety and the determination of the PTF to combat the pandemic.” Aliyu also apologised, saying, “As stated by the chair of the PTF, we would like to acknowledge and apologise for the mistakes that were made regarding the burial of the late chief of staff. “We realise that crowd control failed. We have learnt from this and we will ensure future events are adequately regulated and follow the task force protocols.” The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, on his part, said that a new national policy would be released to address the increase in the number of confirmed cases for COVID-19. The minister said that the body acknowledged the sharp increase in the number of infected persons in Nigeria in the last few days. He attributed the increase to a new testing strategy of reaching out to people in the communities. He said, “Thirteen molecular laboratories nationwide have been activated so far by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and the target this week is to double the current national testing capacity of 1,500 tests per day.” Use of mask outside homes The minister said masks should be used for all activities outside homes. He added, “The use of masks, be they disposable or cloth masks or other face coverings, is advised for all activities outside the home, especially in hotspot states of Lagos and Kano, and the FCT. We encourage the mass production, donation and distribution of reusable washable masks.” While condoling with the families of health professional who lost their lives while on duty, the minister said that the Federal Government would compensate health workers at the forefront of the COVID-19 fight. Ehanire noted that the challenge of testing people in the North-East and other conflict zones was enormous, stating that the exercise could only be done where security would be guaranteed. “Testing in conflict areas is a challenge. You will remember that polio eradication initiative has lingered in the North-East until recently. That is because routine immunisation was hindered by the same conflict. “We will do our best with the situation with testing but we can only operate within the areas that are safe.” Borno index case came in contact with IDPs On an employee of a non-governmental organisation that tested positive for COVID-19 and his exposure to people living in internally displaced persons’ camps, the minister said that the situation had provided a huge job for the PFT. He said efforts would be made to locate people that the employee had had contact with. “On an NGO employee, who tested positive for COVID-19 and his exposure to people in the internally displaced persons’ camp, meticulous contact tracing to find out those whom he has been in touch with irrespective of whether they are displaced person or not is going on.” Kyari: SGF, ministers, others shun NUJ advice not to attend COVID-19 briefing Top government officials, who attended Kyari’s burial,  shunned advice by the Nigeria Union of Journalists to stay away from COVID-19 press briefing. Besides the SGF, other attendees of the burial, who were present at Monday briefing included the minister of aviation and the PTF coordinator. The NUJ, the Federal Capital Territory Council, in a statement by its Chairman, Emmanuel Ogbeche,  stated,  “Following the protocol already established by the PTF and the Presidency in asking all those who attended the funeral rites for the late Mallam Abba Kyari, former Chief of Staff to the President, the NUJ urges, in particular, members of the PTF who were at the Defence House and Gudu cemetery, to respectfully not attend the daily COVID-19 briefing until after the 14-day isolation.” Aid worker who died of COVID-19 had no travel history – UN The United Nations on Monday said the aid worker, Babagana Buba, who died of complications from COVID-19 in Borno State had no travel history outside the state. The UN Resident Coordinator in Nigeria, Edward Kallon, in a statement,  said efforts were being made to trace anyone the deceased might have come in contact with. The aid worker, who was showing symptoms of COVID-19, died shortly after being admitted at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital. Kallon said,  “He had no travel history outside of Borno State and made the ultimate sacrifice.” 97 persons isolated in Borno But the Chairman of the state Committee on the Prevention and Control of COVID-19,  Usman  Kadafur,  in a statement on Monday, said 97 persons who had contact with the aid worker had been isolated. He said, “The remains of the body have been buried in line with standard protocol for disposal of infectious body. All contacts of the deceased are being traced and necessary measures to prevent further spread have been put in place. “To this point, about 97 persons of interest have been traced and strategic testing instituted (35 in Pulka and 64 in Maiduguri).” Govt begins probe as Kano residents panic over increased burials Some residents of  Kano city, the   Kano State capital, were on Monday concerned about the increased burials at cemeteries in the town. The residents, particularly people living near cemeteries, in separate interviews with our correspondents, said there had been increased activities in the cemeteries as more corpses were brought there for burial. They feared that this might not be unconnected with the spread of COVID-19 to the state, which had 36 cases of the virus as of Sunday. A resident of the Farm Centre told one of correspondents on condition of anonymity that he witnessed about 26 burials at the cemetery in the area within the last two days. Another resident, Mallam Jafar Lawal, popularly known as Sarki, told The PUNCH  that between Friday and Monday, he witnessed no fewer than 10 burials at the Farm Centre cemetery. Sarki said, “ From Friday morning to late Sunday,  I witnessed more than seven burials while the remaining three were done today in the morning. So, all in all, from Friday to date, I witnessed 10 different burials at the cemetery.” Some attendants and undertakers at the Dandolo Cemetery in the Goron Dutse area of the metropolis, confirmed that 61 bodies were buried between Saturday and Sunday. Also, at the Gyadi-gyadi Cemetery, located at Court Road, no fewer than 31 bodies were said to have been buried on Saturday. Sources said the Abattoir Cemetery recorded the burial of 13 bodies, said to have been brought from Zango Quarters within three days last week. But the state government on Monday dismissed the rumour of mass death in Kano. It also said it was investigating increased burials at the cemeteries and causes of the deaths. The state government, in a statement by state Health Educator/ Secretary, Risk Communication Sub-Committee on COVID-19, Auwalu Fagge, said, “This  particular rumour has been investigated and found to be untrue and must be dispelled.” The state Commissioners of Health,  Dr Aminu Tsanyawa said the ministry had commenced an investigation into the posts being circulated on social media on the purported death of a number of people within the last few days. The Public Relations Officer of the ministry, Hajiya Hadiza Namadi in a statement on Monday, said, “The attention of Kano State Ministry of Health has been drawn to a post being circulated on social media platforms on purported death of a number of people within two days and buried in some cemeteries within Kano metropolis. “As the ministry could not immediately verify the veracity of the claim going round, the state Commissioner of Health, Dr. Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa, hereby assures the general public that investigation into the matter is ongoing to verify the claim and possible causes of the deaths.” ‘44 per cent of Oyo COVID-19 cases traceable to UCH’ No fewer than 44 per cent coronavirus cases in Oyo State are traceable to the University Teaching Hospital, Ibadan. Making this disclosure on Monday was a top official of the Oyo State Government who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity. He said, “There are fears that the UCH, which is supposed to be a research and treatment centre, might be putting a lot of people of the state at the risk of COVID-19 infection going by the trend and pattern of the disease in Oyo State. “The UCH is already giving us a cause for concern over the spread of COVID-19 whereas it is supposed to be a plus as a prime health centre. Statistics available to Oyo State now is that 44 per cent of all cases are traceable to the UCH. The data show that seven out of the total 16 cases in the state are traceable to the UCH.” However, the Public Relations Officer of the UCH, Toye Akinrinlola, said he could not react to the allegation on the grounds that it was a policy matter. “Only the CMD has the capacity to react to issues like this,” he said. NCDC records 38 new cases The NCDC on Monday recorded 38 new cases, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 665. The NCDC, via its twitter handle, @NCDCgov, said 23 cases were recorded in Kano, five in Gombe, three in Kaduna, two in Borno, two in Abia, one each in the FCT, Sokoto and Ekiti. “As of 11:10 pm 20th April, there are 665 confirmed cases of #COVID19 reported in Nigeria. 188 patients have been discharged with 22 deaths recorded,” the NCDC said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.