Stadiums are empty, and sport in general has been temporarily suspended, but that doesn’t mean you can’t be a winner with 1xBet.  This award-winning betting site has made sure that you will not miss out on the thrill of football and all that it comes with. Register at 1xBet, and get your football fix with FIFA and PES.  Make bets while having the added advantage of razor-sharp odds and wide betting options. 1xBet strives to be the best betting partner they can in all circumstances. Choose from Many Different Tournaments While enjoying the sophisticated gameplay of both FIFA and PES at 1xBet, you will be able to still enjoy all your favorite big brand football teams in virtual action. Names like Arsenal, for example, all feature in the championships online. You will be pleased to hear mention of all your heroes too Messi, Ronaldo and the rest of the football greats are all featured. So put your knowledge to use, and make some tactical bets. Football fans will be able to enjoy all types of competitions including those in Spain, Italy, Germany and many others, and 1xBet brings the World Cup to your fingertips. Exotic Markets Although real live action brings its own advantages, the virtual world of football also has its own set of extra features that make it unique. It offers bettors some exotic betting options to add extra flavour to their experience.  For example, English Premier League games can take place in various settings like a courtyard.  Or the format could be switched up. So teams like Chelsea, Manchester United etc. can play in a 4-by-4 format. These unusual offerings make for an even more fun betting environment which offers greater chances of winning. 1xBet makes sure that almost anything is possible for its valued visitors. Great Opportunity to Make Money FIFA and PES present the chance to accelerate winning as virtual games not only take far quicker than the 90 minutes prescribed by real life games, but they also take place around the clock.  This means that there are more games, more often, which equals more to bet on, and therefore more winning to be had. Add great odds with many markets to the mix and you have a brilliant formulation to win! Don’t waste time, log in to 1xBet and win!