Ebenezer Bajela The Nigeria Football Federation, Super Eagles’ coach Gernot Rohr and some national team players have jointly sent a message to Nigerians urging them to obey the directives given by the World Health Organisation, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and the Federal gGvernment on the coronavirus. In a video posted on the NFF Twitter handle, Nigerians were told that in order to defeat the coronavirus, all hands must be on deck. Eagles captain Ahmed musa said, “Let’s stay at home, please be safe.” “I hope everyone is staying safe and staying healthy, but please stay at home,” Everton star Alex Iwobi said. Shehu Abdullahi added,“ Please, don’t also forget to pray for our country and the world.” Former Super Falcons captain, Desire Oparanozie said, “The more adherent we are, the sooner this goes away and life can come back to normal.” “Please wash your hands, please sanitize your hands and please stay inside during this lockdown. It is for our own good,” Leganes defender Kenneth Omeruo advised. Adding his voice to the campaign, Fortuna Düsseldorf II goalkeeper, Maduka Okoye said, “To win this fight against COVID-19 we have to follow the rules of the NCDC, the Nigerian government and the Nigeria Football Federation very strictly.” On his part, Rohr stated, “It is a difficult battle because we don’t see the enemy but we can win it together if we have this good solidarity. We have it in our football family and we must have it all together in Nigeria.” The NFF president, Amaju Pinnick in his message gave tips on how to defeat the virus. “The watchword as always is that of self discipline, which means we must stay indoors, we must wash our hands with soap at every given point, we must sanitize ourselves and our environment and we must keep social distancing when necessary.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.