Femi Makinde The National Association of Nigerian Traditional Medicine Practitioners has said its members have produced herbal drugs that can cure the dreaded coronavirus. The National Secretary, NANTMP, Alhaji Kamaldeen Adeagbo, said this in an interview with our correspondent in Lagos on Friday. Adeagbo said members of the NANTMP had produced drugs that could cure COVID-19 patients, saying the body was ready to subject the products to the National Agency for Foods, Drugs and Control for analysis and approval. Adeagbo said, “We have carried out a lot of research into sicknesses which have the same symptoms as COVID-19. We have herbal drugs that can treat coronavirus patients and we are planning to see the Minister of Health concerning this. “We want the Minister of Health to subject our drugs on COVID-19 to laboratory analysis and give them to the World Health Organisation to verify our claims. “We are not just making claims; we want them to subject our products to laboratory analysis. We are not talking about idol worshiping, we carry out extensive research before we manufacture our products and we have been subjecting our drugs to NAFDAC for approvals. “This is not just pounding leaves and herbs together without carrying out serious research into it. We have machines and our production processes are certified to be okay. “Even if you follow the way medical doctors have been treating COVID-19 patients, you will see that there is no particular drug for now. We have drugs that can cure all the symptoms of COVID-19 such as cough, sneezing, headache, high temperature and shortness of breath.” Adeagbo said its members were all over Nigeria, adding that many of their drugs had been exported to Europe and the United States. He, however, explained that its members were not treating any patient with COVID-19 yet but said they would do that if the appropriate government agencies authorised them. He added that the body would soon produce hand sanitisers and distribute it to some government agencies including media houses. The NAFDAC could not be reached to comment on the claims of NANTMP. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  