Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, has extended the COVID-19 induced lockdown across the state, by an additional two weeks as part of measures to avert the spread of the disease. Secretary to the State Government, Biodun Oyebanji, announced this in a statement, in Ado Ekiti, on Monday. He explained that the decision was taken after a careful consideration of available evidence on progress made to curb the spread of COVID-19, as well as in recognition of similar efforts by neighbouring states and the Federal Government. Oyebanji said, “Effective from April 14, wearing of masks in public places will be compulsory in compliance with recent findings on causes of the spread of COVID -19. “Government is finalising arrangements to make face masks available to persons on essential duties, including foodstuff sellers in markets.” He said, “The Ekiti State COVID-19 (Prevention of Infection) Regulations, 2020 will remain in force during this extension. All existing measures to contain the spread of COVID -19 in the state will continue to be enforced.” He listed these measures to include: restriction of movement of persons and goods; closure of businesses, Oja Oba and Oja Bisi markets; prevention and prohibition of gatherings;) closure of boundaries; and prohibition of public transport, adding that the lockdown would be relaxed between 6am and 2pm on Thursday (April 16) and Tuesday (April 21) to enable people re-stock essential goods. Oyebanji explained that the measures were put in place to safeguard the lives of residents of the state. He also said palliatives and other measures were being put in place to ameliorate the sufferings of the people. However, the state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, faulted the decision. Oguntuwase made his feelings known in a statement he signed on Monday. He said, “The government should relax the restriction order now once the state has substantially been free of the spread of the pandemic so that people can fend for their families. “We are appealing to the state government to review the Stay-at-Home order. Within the 14 days, ordinarily any COVID-19 case ought to have been revealed except if the state government does not have a monitoring committee. “They must make sure it is either lifted completely or arranged in such a way that people will be able to operate their businesses and still stay at home during the evening time.” The opposition politician also urged the state government to expand the number of beneficiaries of its palliatives because the effect of the pandemic on the economic lives of the people was incalculable. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com