Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Nigerian Conservation Foundation and its international partners have called for collective action against illegal trade in wildlife. The NCF said globally and particularly in Africa, illegal wildlife trade continued to be a growing multibillion-dollar business, with statistics indicating that the trade generates between $7 and $23bn annually, adding that one out of every four birds or mammal species globally was caught up in wildlife trade. According to the foundation, in Africa, it involves trade and trafficking of elephant tusks and rhino horn, pangolin scales, bush meat, tropical timber and endangered birds, including vultures. The NCF said “Wildlife trade is increasingly driving species to extinction, and destroying biodiversity. Moreover, wildlife trade threatens rural community livelihoods, hampers development efforts, and puts ecosystems at risk. “Perhaps one of the frightening realities of this trade is the threat that it poses to the health of human beings, through spread of zoonotic diseases – diseases that jump from animals to human beings. In recent past, the world has seen the emergence of animal- borne infectious diseases such as SARS, Nipah, Ebola and Lassa Fever.” It explained that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic that had wreaked havoc globally was suspected to have originated from a wildlife market in Wuhan, China, adding that already, China had taken commendable steps and banned the trade and consumption of wild animals, pending formalisation of the ban into law later this year. The Egyptian Vulture New Life Project Manager, Bulgarian Society for the Protection of Birds, Stoyan Nikolov, said “Wildlife trade is reaching unprecedented levels, and while efforts are being made to combat this trade, national governments should enact effective laws that clamp down on this trade.” According to him, this will go a long way in ensuring protection and conservation of species and perhaps help reduce occurrences of zoonotic diseases in the future. The NCF said internationally, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna had provided a legal framework to regulate trade in wild animals and plants. It added that African countries party to the convention should consider mainstreaming various aspects of combating wildlife crimes, in line with CITES. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 