Dayo Ojerinde The Lagos State Government on Thursday recorded two more COVID-19-related deaths and discharged another five other patients who have tested negative twice. The state Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, disclosed this via his Twitter handle, @ProfAkinAbayomi. The PUNCH had on Wednesday reported the death of 51-year-old Dr Chigbo Emeka, who died at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, after he had contact with an infected person in his private hospital. “Unfortunately, Lagos recorded three additional deaths from COVID-19-related complications. The deceased are males aged 51, 52 and 62.  One of the dead, a medical doctor, had contact with an infected person who recently returned to the country. “Other victims have no travel history or record of contact with any infected person. Total COVID-19-related deaths are now 10. “I hereby urge Lagosians to remain vigilant and report any concern about #COVID-19 infection in our communities by calling 08000CORONA #ForAGreaterLagos,” Abayomi said. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, announced on his Twitter handle, @jidesanwoolu, that the state had discharged five more COVID-19 patients after they tested negative twice for the virus. He tweeted, “Dear Lagosians, Today, five more patients; three females and two males, have been discharged from the Mainland Infectious Diseases Hospital to reunite with society. They were discharged having recovered fully and tested negative twice consecutively for #COVID-19. “This brings to 90, the number of patients successfully managed and discharged from our isolation facilities. “I appeal to residents to stay at home, practice #SocialDistancing and observe the highest possible personal hygiene.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  