Kelvin Ekerete Odion Ighalo has revealed that Manchester United is yet to offer him a contract to remain at the club beyond his loan deal. There have been reports in the media that the Red Devils will be willing to keep the Nigerian at the club by trying to match Shanghai Shenhua’s £400,000 a week offer for the striker but Ighalo says he is yet to be made an offer. “There is no offer on the table yet, that is because the season is still on and I’m yet to finish my loan deal,” the former Super Eagles striker told ElegbeteTV. He added that he was yet to decide his next career move stating that he would weigh his options before deciding to put pen to paper at any club. “I don’t just take decisions alone in my life; I have a principle and guideline for everything I do. I always pray to God to direct me in everything. “I have seen a lot of tweets and stories on social media with people asking if I’m crazy to turn down China’s money, while some are telling me to stay back at United.” The 30-year-old says he is expecting offers from several other clubs at the end of the season. “It is not only Shanghai that will come with an offer. United will come with theirs and other clubs might join as well. “For now, I don’t have anything to say but when the season finishes, and I get offers from both teams, I will sit back and think about it, pray about it, and what God says I should do, I will do that.” Ighalo has received praises from ex-United players, fans and pundits but he says he is focused on his job at the club and not carried away. “I don’t get carried away with what people say and what they feel. I came to United to play for a pay cut because I wanted to, so anything can still happen, but I want the season to end and I’ll see what I have on ground.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.