Gbenga Adeniji  and Eniola Akinkuotu The family of the late former governor of the old Bendel State, Prof. Ambrose Alli, has absolved him of any charges, saying he was selfless in improving the lot of the people of the defunct state and Nigeria as a whole. The statement was on the heels of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari’s (retd.) announcement of pardon for some deceased statesmen like Alli and a few others convicted decades ago. The President also extended pardon to 2, 600 prisoners amid the coronavirus pandemic. In the statement by Andrew, son of the late professor, sent to Saturday PUNCH on Friday, the family noted that Alli’s altruistic life was demonstrated by his legacy. Alli was jailed on Decree 3 of 1984 before the Special Military tribunal set up by Buhari (the then head of state)  for allegedly diverting N983, 000 (over $1m at the time) from the treasury of Bendel State (now Edo and Delta states). The statement noted, “We are aware of the announcement concerning the pardon of my father Prof. Ambrose Alli made by the government via its social media pages. Although we are yet to receive any direct official communication on the matter, we are pleased to hear that our father/brother/ grandfather has received a presidential pardon. We have never believed that he was guilty of anything other than giving his all to improve the lot of the people of the former Bendel State and indeed Nigeria. “This is demonstrated by the enduring legacy he left. We thank His Excellency, President (Muhammadu) Buhari, as well as His Excellency, Governor (Godwin) Obaseki, and all those who have supported the process inside and outside government, for their recognition of this fact.” Speaking on the issue with one of our correspondents on Friday, elder statesman and Afenifere chieftain, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, stated that Buhari deserved no praise for pardoning Alli. He said Buhari unjustly convicted Alli like many others on trumped-up charges of corruption. He stated that the pardon could be an attempt by Buhari to make peace with God. Adebanjo, who was a close associate of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, and a member of the Unity Party of Nigeria which Alli belonged, said Buhari deserved no praise for the pardon. He said, “We always knew that Ambrose Alli never deserved to be sent to jail. He was convicted by an autocratic government led by Buhari. I cannot thank Buhari for the pardon because he punished Alli for a crime that was never committed. He gave them a punishment they never deserved. READ ALSO: We won’t allow maltreatment of Nigerians, Gbajabiamila tells Chinese envoy “If he has a change of conscience and says Alli is no longer a convict, that is his business with God. He was never convicted by the constitution of the people but by Buhari’s autocratic standards.” He was accused of giving money to his party. But the military tribunal which tried Alli did not find evidence that he gave money to his party but a campaign contribution given to the party treasurer by a contractor. Alli had no legal representation because the Nigerian Bar Association had boycotted all tribunals set up by the Buhari government, describing them as unconstitutional. While serving his jail term at Kirikiri prison, Lagos, Alli’s health deteriorated and he was almost going blind. He was transferred to Jos prison and then Agodi prison, Ibadan from where he was released. He died shortly after he was released from prison on his 60th birthday on September 22, 1989. The Edo State University was renamed Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, in honour of the late ex-governor. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 