What is your educational background? I am an entrepreneur, sales professional and the founder of Veritasi Homes and Properties Limited. I studied Chemical Engineering at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State. I have a certification in Managerial Finance and Management Techniques from the London School of Business and Finance. I’m currently running a MBA programme at the Metropolitan school of Business and Management London. Also, I have attended several training sessions and seminars locally and internationally. In 2019, I was listed on the Forbes Africa 30 Under 30 (business list). Recently, the European American University, Dominican Republic, awarded me a honourary doctorate degree. I am also an ECOWAS ambassador. Tell me about your career growth. I worked in the PPNP department of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Ibadan, for a year. Although I was an intern, I managed a department. It was there that I understood the power of networking.  After I left NNPC, I came to Lagos and started a fashion business with my friend. When I was in school, I used to design female wears, so I understood the business. We started off buying shirts and shoes at affordable prices from a distant market. Then, we would repackage them for resale for a sizable profit margin. In a matter of time, our demand grew. And we started making our own shoes. What informed your decision to start Veritasi Homes? I have always wanted to be a successful entrepreneur. I came to Lagos in 2013 to start a fashion business with my friend. While marketing our shoes, I met with Hakeem Bakare, a real estate marketer in Lagos. I sold the shoes so well that he felt I could sell real estate. He said to me, “I want you to be on my team”. Real estate was something that I was interested in but I had always thought I needed a lot of money to start. I made my first sale in the eighth month. Me and Hakeem won the ‘Best Sales Team’ award at the company we worked then and got an all-expense-paid trip to Dubai as an incentive. On the Dubai trip, I met a man who had a lot of landed properties in Lagos. Then, I only knew how to sell houses. So, I contacted and set-up meetings with real estate companies selling lands in Lagos.  In no time, I started facilitating successful projects for some of these companies. After I had gained a lot of knowledge about real estate, I started the company in April 2017. What type of corporate culture do you aim to promote? We have a culture of mutual respect and education. I try to foster this by being a role model— I respect others, regardless of their position. I tell my staff to look at me, observe the way I talk to people and learn from it. Also, because we are grooming leaders, we have a book club. We ensure that one person reviews a book every week. For me, attitude is everything. We don’t want to employ skilful people with nasty attitudes. And every member of our team dresses well. What is your overall philosophy for leading an organisation? The overall philosophy of the company is to make leaders out of every employee. It is not just about paying staff members; it is also about building them to create value. We specifically look out for people with entrepreneurial or leadership skills during our recruitment process. What is the main driver behind your company’s innovation? What drives us is the joy of enabling middle and low income earners to get the best value at the cheapest prices. Every single day, I go to the office thinking of ways we can provide more value for everyone. That is why our Camberwall project aims to create 5,000 housing units for 5,000 middle income earners in five years. What sets you apart from your competitors? We are fast in responding to what the world is saying about real estate, and we take customer experience very importantly. We have over 1,000 customers. In December 2018, I was part of the team that called them, and more than 70 per cent of our clients were happy about our services. Of course, one cannot make everybody happy, but at least, one should endeavour to make most people happy. How can you contribute to filling the housing deficit in Nigeria? According to the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics, Nigeria had a deficit of 17 million houses as of August 2012 and requires 700,000 houses annually, compared to less than 100,000 currently being constructed. Our mission is to provide affordable housing solutions to low and middle-class Nigerians. That’s why we have made our packages flexible so that people can pay with ease. The industry is fast developing and like never before, clients are on the lookout for innovation and excellence. As opposed to the popular belief, it is not saturated. And for us, the quality services we provide earn us a lot of referrals from existing clients. Clients are more comfortable with a company with integrity. Customer satisfaction is our watchword! Because of that, our clients decide to work with us. And because they know we always deliver, they trust us. Also, our brand is great and free from controversy. We have sold over 1,500 plots of land and there’s no single litigation, court case or controversy. I feel like we are doing wonderfully well. Of course, not all clients but 95 per cent of our clients are satisfied. We have a good structure, we have wonderful products, and our brand is great. What are the current challenges in Nigeria’s real estate sector? There are a lot of challenges. The first is finance. Real estate is project-based and it is difficult to raise money due to the risks involved, especially in Africa. People find it easier to invest in trade finance instead of project finance. Then, the government policies concerning land and houses in Lagos and the land grabbers (omo onile) trouble is another thing. We have managed to curb most of the challenges with land grabbers though. How do you think the government can address some of these challenges? The government can put more flexible policies concerning entrepreneurship and raising funds in place. We also need more public/private partnerships in the execution of housing projects in Nigeria. Where do you see your company in the next five years? In the next five years, we would have dominated the industry. I believe that if we implement our deluxe strategies and packages, which I wouldn’t like to divulge right now, we would have created at least a hundred millionaires in Nigeria. The aim is to serve more people than to serve us. Real estate is what we have come to do, and we will do it big. How do you pamper yourself? I travel around the world. I go to Monaco, Barcelona (Spain) and other places. I play lawn tennis on Sundays and at times, I go to the spa. What inspires your fashion choices? Firstly, comfort— I try to dress very comfortably. Secondly, I like bright colours. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  