Olalekan Adetayo, Olufemi Atoyebi, Ihuoma Chiedozie, Tunde Ajaja, Tessy Igomu, Peter Dada, Daud Olatunji, Wale Oyewale, Tukur Muntari, and Patrick Odey Governors in the South-West have agreed to jointly close all the borders in the region as part of measures to prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease. The decision was made at the virtual meeting held by the governors of the region – namely, Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti states – under the auspices of the South-West Governors’ Forum on Thursday. In a statement personally issued by the Chairman of the forum and Governor of Ondo State, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, on Friday, the governors also resolved that using of face masks was now compulsory for all the residents of the region. The statement read, “The entry points of our six states be closed forthwith to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “The state governors agreed that people involved in essential services or dealing in medicine, water and consumable items in particular traders and market men/women should endeavour to wear face masks while outside plying their trade, to minimise the spread of the deadly virus. “The governors further agreed that wearing of face masks would be made compulsory for everybody coming out of their homes effective from Friday, April 24, 2020 in their respective states.” The South-West governors’ decision came just as the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on Friday announced fresh 51 cases of the COVID-19 in the Federal Capital Territory and seven other states. Lagos recorded the highest number of new cases at 32. Six new cases were recorded in Kano; Kwara, 5. The FCT, Oyo and Katsina recorded two new cases each, while Ogun and Ekiti states recorded one new case each. The fresh cases brought to 493 the number of COVID-19 cases in the country. While 159 patients had been discharged, 17 patients had died. Speaking on the joint border closures, the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, tweeted via his verified Twitter handle @dabiodunMFR on Friday, saying, “My counterparts and I in the South-West have unanimously taken the decision to close the borders of all the six states within the region, as part of joint efforts to combat the importation of coronavirus. “This is the result of our cooperative approach to flattening the curve in the region and Nigeria at large. #COVID19 #Building Our Future Together.” Also, the Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, who spoke through his media aide, Moses Alao, said the border closures agreement by the governors of the South-West might affect states that shared borders with any of the six states in the zone. “I think that going by the decision at the virtual meeting, states in the South-West sharing borders with other states outside the zone would close their borders so that there would not be an entry into the zone,” he said. Meanwhile, the South-West Governors’ Forum has also dissolved the Board of Directors of Odu’a Investment Limited. The forum mandated the Group Managing Director of the company to be in charge of the region’s business venture. “As the owner state governors, we dissolve the Board of Directors of Odu’a Investment Limited with immediate effect. The Group Managing Director should take charge of the conglomerate affairs pending the constitution of a new board,” Akeredolu said. Abiodun makes a U-turn over Ogun total lockdown Abiodun has made a U-turn over his planned total lockdown of the state to curb the spread of COVID-19. The governor announced the free movement of people between 7am and 2pm on every other day from Monday. Contrary to his earlier announcement that the state would be on total lockdown from Saturday (today), which had led to panic buying among residents of the state on Friday, Abiodun said there would be windows of relaxation during the second phase of the 14 days lockdown. The governor said this while addressing journalists on Friday on the update of the COVID-19 in the state at his Iperu residence in the Remo North Local Government Area of the state. Abiodun said there was a need to strike the balance between public safety and the welfare of the residents. He said, “Ogun State residents will have a window of relaxation from the renewed 14-day lockdown in the state, which will be on Monday (April 20), Wednesday (April 22) and Friday (April 24). “The period of relaxation will be between the hours of 7 am and 2pm on each of these days. “This means that citizens are expected to remain indoors tomorrow (Saturday, April 18); Sunday (April 19); Tuesday (April 21); and Thursday, April 23, as the period of the lockdown.” Health workers test positive for COVID-19 in Lagos In the meantime, some health workers have reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 in a public hospital in Lagos. The health care workers, according to a reliable source, had attended to the 37-year-old new mother that died from COVID-19 complications at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, after referral. The source noted that already, some of the health workers had been admitted to the Mainland Hospital, an infectious disease facility at Yaba, Lagos. This development is coming days after LASUTH management announced placing four nurses that had come in contact with the patient in isolation. LASUTH Chief Medical Director, Prof. Tokunbo Fabamwo, had told the News Agency of Nigeria that all the doctors that came in contact with her took precautions. Earlier, PUNCH Healthwise had exclusively reported that the said patient was delivered of a baby at the Lagos State Government-owned Alimosho General Hospital. The woman had reportedly developed infections in the course of childbirth and was subsequently transferred to LASUTH, also state-owned, where she was placed on admission for medical treatment. The late patient’s result confirmed she had COVID-19 after she had passed on. No private hospital is cleared to treat COVID-19 patients –Minister The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, has said no private hospital is cleared to treat COVID-19 patients in the country. He spoke at the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 media briefing in Abuja on Friday. He said, “There is none (private hospital) that I know of. I think Lagos is looking at accrediting some hospitals. There is a large hospital in Lagos that has called me and said they want to become a coronavirus treatment centre. The structure is such that it wants to remove all the patients they have there and do nothing but coronavirus treatment. “That will be good because it will not stand the risk of cross-infection. But if you as a private hospital want to run a treatment centre for coronavirus, you have to show first of all that you have the staff; a doctor who must be an infectious disease specialist and nurses and even cleaners who are trained in infection prevention protocol. “The operations are different from what obtains in other hospitals. While this is not prohibited, there is no private hospital that has met those criteria at the moment.” Why coronavirus cases are rising –FG Ehanire also said the sharp increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Nigeria in the past two days was an indication that the new house-to-house strategy on testing was yielding results. He said, “The recent marked increase in the numbers of new COVID-19 cases is likely due to scaled-up implementation of our new case-finding strategy, as well as the result of rising community transmission. “With house-to-house and cluster testing, and using the revised criteria for sample collection, the yield has increased. More people with COVID-19 are being detected and transferred to treatment centres. “There will still be more social mobilisation for community testing at the grassroots level and isolation of positive cases. We shall ensure the right message is disseminated to control ongoing transmission.” The minister also encouraged the citizens to disclose complete and accurate information to health workers, especially about their travel history or contact with persons who have or had COVID-19. He said, “Full disclosure allows health workers to promptly investigate, diagnose and treat correctly, to improve the chances of patient’s survival and recovery. The right information also keeps health workers safe. Withholding the truth puts both the user and caregiver at risk, but also other patients on site.” ‘Chinese experts offered valuable information’ Ehanire noted that the Chinese medical experts who arrived in the country some days ago were still in isolation but added that from a teleconference held with directors at the health ministry, valuable information had been extracted from them. “They spoke about how they handle their cases and carry out infection prevention. The conference will be repeated to see what we can learn from them. Science is not about thinking you know everything. Science is about curiosity,” he added. No traditional remedy yet The minister said that although traditional medicine practitioners had come forward claiming to have a cure for the disease, there had not been anyone with scientific proof. “We have a department for traditional, alternative and complementary medicine in the Ministry of Health. We have had a series of letters from traditional medicine practitioners who said they have the cure. I do not dispute it and I have sent such a letter to the department. I am waiting for them to give me feedback on what they discover from the people,” Ehanire said. Abia, Imo no case to be investigated –NCDC At the briefing, the Director-General of the NCDC, Chikwe Ihekweazu, said the Federal Government would double its tracing efforts in Abia and Imo states, where no case of COVID-19 had been reported. “We have decided to re-intensify our surveillance in Abia and Imo states to be sure that we are not missing out on any patient. It definitely means that the states’ teams have to work harder in those states,” he said. Meanwhile, the Abia State Commissioner for Information, Okeiyi Kalu, said one Vincent Prosper, who was suspected of having the virus, had been declared wanted. Private lab participation depends on reagent availability Iheakwazu said that non-availability of reagent worldwide made it difficult for private laboratories to be engaged for testing. “It is not in our interest to accredit any private laboratory but we are doing it now. Like in Kaduna, there was no public sector laboratory that was ready so we accredited private laboratory. In Lagos, it was needed to scale up capacity. Our short-term goal is to stay in the public sector. “At the moment, reagents are not available to buy. All the reagents we are using for testing now are being supplied to our procurement centrally. Once the private sector is able to procure their reagents, that will open up,” he said. 41 out of 400 machine working Iheakwazu added, “On Gene Expert machine for COVID-19, there are 400 of them but only 41 are ready for COVID-19 testing. It is not that the equipment is bad but they require an extra level of bio-safety. “A few days ago, I announced that we were developing a new strategy and that it would be made public. I am pleased to announce that the national strategy to scale up coronavirus disease testing in Nigeria is now ready. Anyone who wants to contribute to it can look at our strategy and see how they can fit in. We get offers every day and states get the same. “The success of the strategy depends on our ability to leverage the existing structure for testing. Our plan is to decentralise testing completely and improve on states turnaround by 50 per cent.” Doctor who showed COVID-19 symptoms dies in Akwa Ibom A medical doctor in Akwa Ibom State, Dr Dominic Essien, died on Thursday at Ibom Specialist Hospital, Uyo Akwa Ibom State. It was gathered that Essien, who was the proprietor of San Dominic Clinic and a lecturer in the Department of Physiology, University of Uyo, had a history of fever, cough and shortness of breath for one week, requiring him to be placed on oxygen. The chairman of the state chapter of the Nigerian Medical Association, Dr Nsikak Nyoyoko, confirmed the death in a letter to the members of the association on Friday. The letter read in part, “Today (Friday), we all have a reason to be sad. I was called last night by a colleague who informed me that one of our colleagues was sick with a week’s history of fever, cough and shortness of breath which worsened yesterday with his SPO2 as low as 72 per cent, requiring him to be placed on oxygen at his clinic. “Unfortunately, this revered colleague of ours died mid-afternoon today. Details of the case management are still sketchy as attempts to reach members of the incident management committee were unsuccessful as they were out for a meeting.” Three Kano State task force members test positive Kano State Commissioner for Health, Dr Aminu Tsanyawa, has said three members of the state task force on COVID-19 have been infected with coronavirus disease. This is contained in a statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the Ministry, Hajiya Hadiza Namadi, in Kano on Friday. Agency to coordinate mass production of face masks The Federal Government has directed the Raw Materials Research and Development Council to coordinate the mass production of face masks in Nigeria. Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, gave the directive while inspecting facilities at the RMRDC headquarters in Abuja on Friday. Onu said, “The NCDC has recommended the use of face masks and we can’t continue to import everything. It will put a lot of strain on our foreign reserves. “We are directing RMRDC to look at standard face masks, analyse them and design the face masks in such a way that the fabric can withstand the virus. “The design of the face masks will be made available for our entrepreneurs to mass-produce and even export to other countries. Africa records 60% increase in deaths in one week –WHO The Director-General of the World Health Organisation, Tedros Ghebreyesus, said Africa recorded a 60 per cent increase in the number of deaths associated with coronavirus in the last one week. He said although the organisation noticed encouraging signs in some countries, there were worrying trends in others. Ghebreyesus said this in his opening remarks at a media briefing on COVID-19 held in Geneva on Friday. He said, “In the past week, there has been a 51 per cent increase in the number of reported cases in my own continent, Africa, and a 60 per cent increase in the number of reported deaths. “With the current challenge of obtaining testing kits, it is likely that the real numbers are higher than reported.” Lagos hospital advises visitors to go on self-isolation A private hospital, St. Edwards hospital, in Ajah area of Lagos state, has called on its visitors to undergo self-isolation for a period of 14 days. Metro Health, one of the state’s health maintenance organisations (HMOs), disclosed that the hospital had been attending to a COVID-19 patient unknowingly. The patient with cardiac symptoms, according to The Cable, was said to have been admitted to the hospital on April 11 without providing information about previous contact with a COVID-19 case. In a statement, the hospital said it received a call from the NCDC on April 12 regarding the patient. “The Hospital received the team from NCDC, and sample was taken from the patient on that Sunday, April 12, 2020,” it read. “NCDC communicated the result on Tuesday, April 14, 2020, which confirmed the patient to be positive and said they were coming to evacuate the patient. “NCDC did not come on Tuesday but eventually came on Wednesday, April 15, 2020, and evacuated the patient. “The hospital has been cooperating with NCDC, WHO and all other health agencies that have called or visited since the incident. “The hospital had been decontaminated on April 15 working with NCDC and following its guidelines. Though NCDC counselled that they can start normal work after one (1) hour of decontamination, the hospital decided to remain closed and reopen for business on Friday, April 17, 2020.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.