Ebenezer Bajela Super Eagles defender Ola Aina has revealed that he was frustrated out of Stamford Bridge by former Chelsea manager, Maurizio Sarri, who deemed him surplus to requirements. Aina joined Italian club Torino on a season-long loan after signing a new three-year deal with Chelsea in the 2018/19 season and made 30 appearances before the Bull triggered the option to permanently transfer him from Chelsea for a reported fee of £9m. The versatile defender had wanted to continue playing in England for a Premier League club but only received concrete offers from Championship teams. In an Instagram conversation with Baiteze TV via Toro News, the 23-year-old opened up on how the Italian manager told him that he won’t get the chance to play, thus suggesting that going on loan would be the best option for him. He said, “He (Sarri) told me that I should go on loan, because I wouldn’t play. “During the transfer market I had only received offers from the Championship but I wanted to play in the Premier League. “When Torino called me, I accepted immediately because I would have had the opportunity to play in Serie A, in important stadiums and against top-level teams and players and above all in a team that wanted to go to the Europa League.” The versatile defender also talked on how difficult life was for him since moving to Italy, with Ronaldo adding to his problems. He added, “As soon as I moved in, I had some difficulties. Habits, food and language change. Adapting was difficult. “Ronaldo is the strongest ever. We played three derby games against him, two defeats and one draw. It is very difficult to play against him. But if I had to say who is a really difficult one to mark I’ll answer Jeremie Boga.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 