Peter Dada and Daniels Igoni The Ondo State Government has said there will be no restriction on movements on Easter Sunday to enable the Christians in the state to worship in their churches. The state government had earlier placed a ban on religious activities as part of the measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease in the state. But the Christian Association of Nigeria after its meeting on Tuesday, said the leaders of the association and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had agreed to ease the restriction to allow church services hold in churches on Easter Sunday. The state Commissioner for Information, Mr Donald Ojogo, confirmed this development in a statement on Wednesday. He said, “The CAN’s statement is explicit enough that government had graciously granted a special relief to enable Christians to celebrate Easter Sunday, being one of the most important annual celebrations of the Church. “Accordingly, the state government has already communicated to the Ondo State Police Command, this concession granted CAN to, as it were, temporise and allow the celebration of Easter Sunday in churches. “This is, however, without prejudice to all precautionary measures and guidelines earlier put in place to contain the spread of the pandemic as enunciated in government’s earlier statements and as agreed to by the leadership of CAN.” Meanwhile, the Bayelsa State Government announced on Wednesday that it had relaxed the COVID-19 lockdown to allow residents mark the Easter celebration. A Government House statement by the acting Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Daniel Alabrah, advised churches with large congregations to hold services with not more than 50 worshippers at a time. It added,”A task force will be going round to observe compliance. All churches are to provide water and soap for members to wash their hands. “All churches are to also provide hand sanitizers for members’ use.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 