Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The Bayelsa State Government has given a hint of its plans to increase internally generated revenue by increasing taxes and levies following the adverse effect of the COVID-19 on crude oil sales. Technical Adviser to the Governor on Finance, Mr Maxwell Ebibai, gave the hint in Yenagoa, on Monday. He said the coronavirus pandemic had turned out to be not only a health challenge but also an economic problem. He asked residents of the state to prepare for the economic hardship that would follow the global coronavirus crisis. Ebibai also said the state government had to take proactive steps considering the fact that the Federal Government’s projections for 2020 based on the COVID-19 pandemic, showed that “if oil price remains at about $30 per barrel,” only about N1.5trn would accrue to the Federation Account.” On what this would mean for Bayelsa State, Ebibai said, “In the same order, that equally means that Bayelsa State is going to get about 50 per cent of what we got in 2019. “So, from an average figure of about N130bn, if other measures are not put in place, the state may be getting approximately between N65bn to N70bn. Our personnel cost is approximately N60bn (per annum).” He said residents should prepare to pay more taxes and other levies stressing that, “as tight as situations will be, internal revenue drive is going to increase.” The governor’s aide said, “So, shop owners, business owners, home owners will need to pay because we need to run our government. It is the government of the people of Bayelsa State. “And as part of our duties as citizens is to prioritise. So, our people should endeavour to meet that responsibility to government. “Government on its part is also considering other measures to ensure that as bad as the situation may be; we are largely a civil-service state, collaborating with the Federal Government, multilateral agencies, we will be able to meet our obligations as much as possible to our citizens.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com