EDWARD NNACHI Lifeless body believed to be that a naval officer declared missing at Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo community in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, has been discovered in a shallow grave. Sunday PUNCH learnt that Umuogodoakpu-Ngbo and the neighbouring Agila community in the Ado LGA of Benue State have been enmeshed in a protracted boundary dispute which claimed many lives and led to the destruction of property worth millions of naira. Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, confirmed this on Saturday in a state-wide broadcast, saying investigation by security agents revealed the late officer was used for rituals. Umahi said his remains had been exhumed, adding that those linked to the killing had also been arrested and would be prosecuted. He said, “Sometime last month, we had an unfortunate incident of the missing of a naval officer in Ngbo community of Ohaukwu LGA and I directed that the royal highness, coordinator, councillor, and the management committee members within that location should be arrested and charged with accessory to information on murder. “This was done since the community refused to give us the names of the people that held the naval officer. Unfortunately, last night, it was confirmed that the naval officer was killed. In fact, the security people said he was used for ritual; that one particular person went home with the skull and they have been able to exhume the remains. “There was a raid last night in Ngbo and people were calling me. Unfortunately, I was not informed of the raid. But if I was informed, I would have kept mute. The life that was lost is not that of an animal. A trained military officer and I want our people to be careful with lives. “Today, all those that are involved in the killing have been rounded up and they are going to appear in court. I have also told the IG (Inspector-General of Police) to set up a special unit in that Ngbo axis to check aggression from Agila people and also cleanse the town.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  