Nike Popoola The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria has donated N20m to the Lagos State Government to support its efforts in containing the spread COVID-19 pandemic. A statement by the Registrar/Chief Executive of the institute, Mr Seye Awojobi, on behalf of the governing council, said the institute was fully committed towards ensuring a safe and sound economy, as well as supporting all its stakeholders to achieve a healthy and sustainable development of the country. While noting that the donation was a token of its support towards the state government’s response to the pandemic, it said it hoped that it would boost the pool of fund available to the state which would go a long way in the provision of the much-needed essential materials and important medical equipment . The CIBN applauded the Federal Government and the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for leading the charge to manage the challenging situation, especially the measures taken so far to stop the spread of the virus in the country. The institute also commended the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Emefiele, and all the banks, that were corporate members of the institute, for their generous donation towards curtailing the pandemic. It also called on individual members to comply with all rules and precautionary measures issued by the government and health authorities to avoid further spread of the virus. The CIBN added that it had perfected arrangements to host its annual general meeting and election of new officers who would run the affairs of the institute for a period of two years. It stated that the meeting would hold virtually. The institute also used the opportunity to commiserate with Lagos State on the gas explosion and fire incident that occurred in the Abule Ado, Amuwo Odofin area of Lagos State on March 15, 2020, which claimed some lives and destroyed several properties. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  