Nike Popoola The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Financial Institutions Training Centre, Mrs Chizor Malize, has said that the COVID-19 pandemic presented an opportunity for business leaders to build confidence in their workforce, show empathy and leverage on technology. A statement said she spoke during a recent leadership summit by the FITC in Lagos with the theme, ‘Leading in the time of crisis’, which was attended by participants from Europe, America, Nigeria, Tanzania, Nairobi, and Asia. In her opening remarks, she stated that ICT had a big role to play in the success of today’s business while training of staff on the use of technology to enable work from home remained crucial. She said webinar was an opportunity for the industry to learn from individuals who had done great things in the past, and still doing great things at present. This, she said, would enable companies and individuals to hold on to their portfolios, achieve desired goals and prepare for the post COVID-19 crisis period. The FITC CEO disclosed that with the COVID-19 crisis, FITC had its business continuity plan in place where it allowed its workforce to work remotely and presented the opportunity for continuous learning and knowledge sharing within the business environment. The Keynote Speaker, Senior Vice-Chairman, Standard Chartered Bank Group, Mrs Bola Adesola, described the theme of the webinar as apt. According to her, the world had changed; including the way people lived and did business. She said that COVID-19 has had an enormous impact on people’s lives and businesses, and there was a need for organisational leaders to effectively lead their teams to ensure continuity and profitability. Group Executive, Tech & Services, First Bank, Mr Callistus Obetta gave insight on what leaders could do with technology, the fourth industrial revolution, and how FirstBank was responding to COVID-19 pandemic, using technology to connect with its customers and workforce. The Deputy Governor, CBN, Mrs Aishah Ahmad, lauded the management of the FITC for the success of the webinar and its insightful theme, given that organisations and economies were grappling with the fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic and traditional ways of working and assumptions were increasingly becoming irrelevant. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     