Patrick Odey, Uyo A lawmaker representing Esit Eket, Ibeno State constituency at the Akwa Ibom State House of Assemby, Dr Usoro Akpanusoh, on Tuesday demanded a review of the wards and chapter congresses of the Peoples Democratic Party, held at the Esit Eket Local Government Area. He said the review was required to enhance internal democracy and promote peace. In a letter addressed to the state PDP Chairman, Paul Ekpo, a copy of which was made available to our correspondent, in Uyo, Akpanusoh alleged that the party’s guidelines for the conduct of the primaries were violated during the congresses. He alleged that an individual bought all the nomination forms for aspirants, adding that selected individuals were invited and issued with already filled nomination forms against the provisions of the party’s guidelines. Akpanusoh said, “I write to register my displeasure over the purported conduct of the wards and chapter congresses of our party in the Esit Eket Local Government. “From my vantage position and from personal observation, I have received complaints and noted with dismay the anomalous procedure adopted in the conduct of our congresses. “The congresses promoted everything except peace, party cohesion and internal democracy in clear violation of the spirit of our party. “Upon commencement of the sale of forms at the national secretariat of the party, aspirants for wards, local governments who sought to buy forms could not. I am informed that forms meant for Akwa Ibom were obtained by a single individual so as to subvert the process for selfish consideration. “I am further informed that selected individuals were clandestinely invited and issued with already filled nomination forms for the congresses.” “This is clearly against the provisions of the party guidelines for the conduct of wards, LGA, zonal congresses and national convention of the party. “I respectfully call on you to utilize your good offices to review the entire congresses in Esit Eket Local Government Area of the state nay Akwa Ibom with a view to write the wrongs in the best interest of our party.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.