Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Two suspected cultists have allegedly shot dead a member of the Oodua People’s Congress in Ogun State, Kolawole Ajomale, in the presence of his pregnant wife. The suspects, identified as Korede Pariosho and Jide Afolabi, allegedly shot Ajomale in the head and stomach, and he died on the spot. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, stated this in a statement on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said Pariosho and Afolabi were arrested by the police on Tuesday, two days after they reportedly committed the crime. He said the incident occurred on Sunday in Ijebu-Igbo in the Ijebu-North Local Government Area of the state. Oyeyemi explained that the suspects invaded Ajomale’s house, situated at No. 20 Odo Balogun Street, Oke-Sopein, Ijebu-Igbo. He said the suspects were arrested following an investigation embarked upon by detectives from the Ijebu-Igbo Divisional Police Station. The PPRO explained that the detectives, led by Divisional Police Officer, Ijebu-Igbo, SP Kazeem Solotan, went to the hideout of the suspects and arrested them. He added that the gun allegedly used to kill the victim had been recovered. Oyeyemi stated, “Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command, on April 7, 2020, arrested two members of a deadly cult, who assassinated one Kolawole Ajomale, a member of the Oodua People’s Congress, on April 5, 2020, in Ijebu-Igbo. READ ALSO: Pastor, 10-year-old, two others killed in Plateau raid “The hoodlums had on April 5, 2020, attacked their victim in his house situated at No. 20 Odo Balogun Street, Oke Sopein, in Ijebu-Igbo, where the deceased was shot in the head and stomach in the presence of his pregnant wife, consequent upon which the victim died on the spot. “Since then, the police have been on their trail before they were finally apprehended following painstaking intelligence and technical investigation. “On interrogation, the two suspects confessed to killing the deceased, but they claimed to have done so in revenge for the death of a member of their cult, whom they alleged was killed by the OPC men in 2017. “They further confessed to have vowed since then that any member of the OPC seen would be killed in revenge for the death of their late member.” The PPRO added that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation and prosecution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 