The joint venture partners in Aje oil field, offshore Lagos, are considering the option of storing crude being produced from the field amid the slump in prices and demand collapse. Yinka Folawiyo Petroleum Company Limited, a wholly-owned indigenous firm, is the operator of the Oil Mining Lease 113, where Aje oilfield is located. Other partners are Pan Petroleum Aje Limited, New Age Exploration Nigeria Limited, EER (Colobus) Nigeria Limited and ADM Energy. First oil was achieved in the Aje field in May 2016, 20 years after it was discovered, making Lagos an oil-producing state. One of the partners, ADM Energy Plc, in an email sent to our correspondent, said operations at OML 113 had continued largely uninterrupted, with production levels remaining stable. The London-based firm disclosed this while providing a corporate update in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic and unprecedented market conditions affecting the oil industry. It said the operators and the JV partners were focused on seeking ways to mitigate the impact of the dramatic reduction in the oil price. According to ADM Energy, the JV partners are currently in dialogue with service providers in an attempt to achieve significant cost reductions at an operating level. It said, “The JV partners are also exploring the option of storing production from OML 113 on the floating production, storage and offloading vessel, which has up to 700,000 barrels of storage capacity. “This will enable the company, and other parties in the Aje partnership, to take advantage of the forward curve where crude oil prices are set to recover in Q3-Q4 2020.” The firm said in response to COVID-19, the partners and relevant stakeholders had adopted a set of new procedures for the crew on the FPSO. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 