Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Most domestic airlines in the country have extended the suspension of flight services following the lockdown order in several states across the country due to the coronavirus pandemic. Domestic airlines suspended flight services about two weeks ago but were expected to resume by this week and next. Dana Air, which was expected to resume flights this week after a 14-day break which began on March 15, said on Friday that it had extended resumption till further notice. The airline, in a notice to its customers, said the extension was in support of the Federal Government’s efforts to curtail the spread of COVID-19. According to the airline, all booked tickets between March 26 and the date of resumption will remain valid till December 31, 2020. The airline said, “Due to the ongoing efforts by the Federal Government and the Lagos State Government to curtail the spread of COVID-19, we have decided to extend our resumption till further notice. “The health and safety of our employees, customers and community remain our top priority and we will continue to monitor the situation and provide necessary updates to our esteemed guests.” Azman Air also announced an indefinite suspension of its flight operations. The airline said, “Due to ongoing pandemic situation in the country, the management of Azman Air is hereby directed to inform our esteemed customers and the general public that our resumption date has been extended till further notice. “This painful decision is imminent as we await the ratification of the Federal Government and the aviation regulatory authority on their concerted efforts to sanitise all the airports for safe operations.” Domestic airlines made the decision to suspend flight operations before the Federal Government’s lockdown order, following a drop in passenger demand as the coronavirus continued to spread. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 