Afeez Hanafi Four persons were injured on Saturday after a head-on collision between a truck with the inscription of LAWMA (Lagos State Waste Management Agency) and a pickup van. The accident, which occurred in the early hours of Saturday at Ile Zik inward Oshodi, was reportedly caused by the truck driver driving against traffic. Officials of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency were said to have rescued the victims to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. LASEMA Public Affairs Officer, Nosa Okunbor, who confirmed the crash, said no life was lost. He said, “The LASEMA Response Team on arrival at the scene of the incident, discovered an accident between a LAWMA truck with an unknown registration (number) and a pickup van also with unknown registration (number) fully loaded with charcoal. “Further investigation revealed that the LAWMA truck was driving against traffic from Ile Zik, while the pickup van from Oshodi, rammed into the truck. “Four people, including the driver of the pickup van, were said to have sustained different degrees of injury and taken to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital for treatment.” Okubor said the two vehicles were removed from the road and handed over to the police at Man Centre Police Station. Efforts to get the reaction of LAWMA proved abortive. But a senior official of the agency who spoke on condition of anonymity said the truck could belong to a PSP operator and not LAWMA. “LAWMA is written on PSP trucks too, so it is difficult to verify. However, I am not aware of the accident.” The official promised to send the phone number of LAWMA General Manager to our correspondent but had yet to do so as of press time. Subsequent calls to his mobile did not go through. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  