Chukwudi Akasike and Okechukwu Nnodim A Rivers State Chief Magistrates’ Court has remanded 10 passengers, who flew into the Air Force Base in Port Harcourt on board a Caverton Helicopters’ aircraft on Tuesday, for allegedly contravening the Executive Order of Governor Nyesom Wike. The passengers to be remanded in any government facility less than 24 hours after two pilots, Samuel Ugorji and Samuel Buhari, were remanded in a correctional centre for allegedly flying into Port Harcourt without authorisation. The passengers had earlier been arrested by the personnel of the Rivers State Police Command. The defendants were identified as Nwogu Chibunna, 39; Peter Michael, 43; Ajagba Iheanyi, 35; Ekperewechi Oguguo, 43; Nsikan Pius, 38; Abanobi Chinoso, 27; and Udoh Hagan, 28. Others are Okachukwu Chuks, 41; Goddy Chukwu, 42; and Omerurike Chijioke, 43. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the four counts preferred against them by the state, even as the Chief Magistrate, D. D. Ihua-Maduenyi, ordered that they should be remanded in any government facility to enable medical personnel from the state to carry out tests on them to determine their coronavirus status. The prosecution team was led by the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Rivers State, Prof.  Z. Adangor; while the Officer-in-charge, Legal/Prosecutions, the state police command, Gladys Imegu, was part of the team. Meanwhile, the Federal Government has declared that the officers, who arrested the Caverton Helicopters’ pilots exhibited dangerous ignorance. The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, stated this in Abuja on Wednesday during the daily briefing on the COVID-19. Responding to a question on whether the flight operated by the pilots was cleared by his ministry, Sirika said, “Civil aviation is item No. 3 on the exclusive list. There is no other person or institution other than the Federal Government that has the legal right to legislate on items on the list. “So, the air force officer, who jumped over the Commander-in-Chief, the Chief of Defence Staff and the Chief of Air Staff to call a governor to come into the property of the Federal Government to make an arrest, exhibited dangerous ignorance and gross incompetence. “The police officer, who followed the governor in there, also exhibited dangerous ignorance from our perspective in civil aviation.” READ ALSO: Ayade keeps vigil to enforce boundary closure Sirika added that the pilots got approval to operate the flight into Rivers State. He stated, “On whether we secured approval for the flight, yes we did. And we did it in the national interest. One of those flights was for the purpose of improving the national revenue, which Rivers State is the greatest beneficiary of. “So, those flights by Caverton, Aero, Bristol and Arik were for the national interest and improved national revenue.” The minister said the government decided to shore up the country’s revenue by allowing some flights following the crash in crude oil prices. Sirika added, “It is against this background that we have the powers in civil aviation, guided by the Civil Aviation Act of 2006 to approve such flights. “So, those flights were approved lawfully, legally and correctly. Yes, we will do everything lawful and legal to get those pilots back and their operations will continue in the national interest.” Meanwhile, Wike has declared Caverton Helicopters persona non grata in the state for allegedly flouting his no-flight Executive Order. The governor, who made the declaration in a state-wide broadcast, said the decision was taken because the firm was endangering the lives of Rivers people with its suspicious operations. Wike directed local government council chairmen to close the offices of Caverton Helicopters across the state. He said, “We appreciate the need to protect business interests and operations in the state and we will do whatever that is required to ensure that no business is unduly affected by the measures we have taken to combat the coronavirus. “However, we shall not welcome businesses or companies that value their business activities or profit more than or in clear disregard for the lives and health of our people. By its actions, Caverton Helicopters has clearly shown that Rivers lives do not matter to it. It is an enemy of Rivers people and is hereby declared persona non grata in Rivers State. “With this declaration, Caverton Helicopters can only choose to operate in any part of Rivers State at its own risk as local government chairmen have been directed to close its offices and prevent its operations.” Wike explained that the “highly insensitive and provocative actions” of Caverton Helicopters took place in the midst of credible intelligence reports about plans by enemies of the state to traffic carriers of the dreaded coronavirus to the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 