The COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect many people across the world, crossing the two million infected mark, one thing is clear though, this virus has succeeded in grinding the economy of many countries of the world to a halt or near halt. In many countries, only people engaged in essential duties such as healthcare, food and nutrition and media are allowed to move around freely. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to rage all over the world, with various scientists and pharmaceutical companies, trying to find curative drugs or vaccines to stem the spread of the dreaded virus, it beats my imagination that various conspiracy theories surrounding the origin and prospects for the cure of the virus have emerged. Early this year, when the COVID-19 virus erupted in Wuhan, China, the first reports we had was that it emanated from a wet market in Wuhan. It was believed that some wild animals were the cause of the spread of the COVID-19 virus. So, we all thought until all manner of conspiracy theories started to fly around through the ubiquitous social media platforms. One of the conspiracies is that China wanted to take over the world economy and be at the forefront of influencing world politics going forward. The theory goes on to state that the Chinese knew that they could not achieve this through the use of military force as the United States of America will quickly and easily put a stop to that ambition, with its military might. This, the theory continues, is why China, decided to develop the coronavirus at the Wuhan Institute of Biotechnology and release it, first in Wuhan, blame its origin on the livestock market in Wuhan and afterward, spread it in cities across Europe and the United States of America to weaken those countries’ economies. This, the theory stated, will give China, the required victory without firing a shot. Yet came another conspiracy theory, this time, involving the Billionaire Co-founder of Microsoft, Bill Gates, who had pre-warned the world about five years prior that, the world should be ready, at some time in the future, for such a pandemic that we have on our hands now. He emphasised that the world should be ready, to fight such a virus, when the time comes. Interestingly, it was not only Bill Gates that gave such a warning. Erstwhile President George W. Bush, who, as President of the United States of America, between 2001 and 2009, had earlier, given a similar warning, during his tenure in office, in a speech to the National Institute of Health, in the United States of America, but he was not joined in the conspiracy theory. Why was this? The conspiracy caught up with Bill Gates because the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation had been involved, in the development of various vaccines and drugs, to counter various viruses, diseases and ailments, prior to now. With the arrival of COVID-19, bill gates, Bill Gates is said to be at the forefront of developing a vaccine that, will curb the virus. This, to many, is a very good idea and in the right direction. What many are, however, against according to the conspiracy theory is that Bill Gates is said to state that the vaccination will be administered with a digital ID that can track people. The theory states that he wants to introduce his ‘Quantum Dot Dye’ technology, through the administration of the tracking digital ID, hence, many are alleging that, Bill Gates is, in the know, of the origin of the coronavirus, to achieve his personal objective. Some Christians, are in fact, of the belief, according to the theory, that, what was stated in the book of Revelation, in the Bible, about having the 666 mark, on humans in the end times, to monitor them, is about to be achieved, by Bill Gates! Yet another conspiracy theory, is the one on the fact that the Covid-19 pandemic is, in fact, caused by the effects of radiation, from the deployment of the 5G network. The 5G network is an improvement on the 4G network, currently in use in many countries, including Nigeria. It is said to be about 20 times faster than the 4G network. 5G is said to be a network that will revolutionise the way we do many things, through enabling the Internet of Things, IoT, that requires a very fast network, to work efficiently and effectively. Coincidental, the COVID-19 infection has been recorded, in some jurisdictions, where the 5G has been deployed, especially, in Europe, America and some Asian countries, such as China, however, the infection has, also, ravaged many countries that have not yet deployed the 5G, such as Iran. A number of scientists across the world have emphatically stated that there is no correlation between 5G and Covid19, which makes good sense. I am not a health professional, so I wouldn’t want to dabble so much into the health consequences of a next-generation service such as 5G but, if you ask me, I think there might be some health consequences depending on the level of your exposure to 5G emissions. That said, there is a good piece written by Oladapo Ashiru; Professor of Anatomy/Consultant Reproductive Endocrinologist, titled ‘5G Electromagnetic Field radiation and health in COVID-19 era’, which I encourage you to read. Simply search for it on punchng.com. As the race for the development of curative drugs and preventive vaccines goes into overdrive, I encourage people to abide by the hygiene of washing their hands often, maintaining social distancing, staying indoors as much as possible, as well as take other precautionary steps to avoid contracting the dreaded disease, which I believe will be conquered sooner, rather than later. Stay safe! CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  