Adelani Adepegba, Olufemi Atoyebi, Oladimeji Ramon, Tobi Aworinde, Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe,  Kayode Idowu, John Charles and Sunday Nwakanma The family of Abba Kyari, the late Chief of Staff to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), on Monday, observed a combined 3rd and 7th day Islamic prayers for the late CoS. It was gathered that the family decided that the two prayers should be held together to allow mourners to keep the rule of social distancing made to facilitate the fight against coronavirus pandemic. Kyari died on Friday from coronavirus complications. The Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, was among those at the Kyari family residence in Maiduguri on Monday to observe the post-funeral prayers. The governor was in the company of the Senator representing Southern Borno, Mohammed Ndume; the state Chairman of the APC, Bukar Dalori; Secretary to the Borno State Government, chief of staff and some commissioners. A statement by the spokesman for the governor, Mallam Isa Gusau, said the Shehu of Bama, His Highness, Kyari Elkanemi, led the family in taking the decision for the combined prayers. The Chief Imam of Borno, Zannah Laisu, presided during the prayers that took place at the residence of the deceased’s younger brother, Baba-Shehu Arjinoma, who is the district head of Banki town in the Bama Local Government Area. Demise shocking – ECOWAS Meanwhile, the President of the ECOWAS Commission, Jean-Claude Brou, on Monday commiserated with the President, Major General, Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over the death Abba Kyari on Friday. Brou, in a letter of condolence to the President, described Kyari’s passage as very shocking and a painful loss to his family, his country and to the ECOWAS Commission. He stated that he benefited greatly from Kyari’s experience and in-depth knowledge of regional issues. The letter, dated April 18, read, “I remember that after the audience your Excellency granted me on Friday, March 20, 2020, Alhaji Kyari and I spoke at length about various issues regarding our region. “Since my appointment as President of ECOWAS Commission, I have greatly benefited from his experience and in-depth knowledge of regional issues. Late CoS pillar of Buhari’s administration –HCSF In her reaction, the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Folasade Yemi-Esan, described Kyari as the main anchor and strong pillar behind the Buhari regime. In a condolence message addressed to the President, Yemi-Esan said, “It is with shock and sadness that I received the news of the demise of Mallam Abba Kyari, the chief of staff to the President. The unpleasant event, which occurred on Friday, 17th April, 2020, threw the nation into mourning. “There is no doubt that the late Chief of Staff was a great pillar in this administration whose sense of commitment, dedication and loyalty is exemplary. His deep knowledge of governance, hard work and integrity contributed greatly to the achievements of Your Excellency’s administration. “The belief of the late Mallam Abba Kyari in an efficient public service as a veritable vehicle for the delivery of democratic dividends to Nigerians was demonstrated through his constant support and advice to us in the service.” She added, “I recognise the fact that Your Excellency is the chief mourner who has lost a trusted friend, a dependable ally and a man of uncommon loyalty. Mallam Abba Kyari was also known to be a strong anchor of Your Excellency’s administration.” Church leaders condole with Buhari The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, the Most Rev Ignatius Kaigama; and the Prelate, Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence, Samuel Uche, have commiserated with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on the death of Kyari. According to a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the Uche and Kaigama expressed their sympathy for Buhari and others bereaved as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. It added that in a letter to the President, on behalf of the priests and all the faithful of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, Kaigama extended “heartfelt condolences.” The cleric encouraged Buhari to “stand strong in faith in these trying times and continue to work resolutely” with his team within the resources and possibilities available. While pledging the support of the Catholic Church to the fight to curb the spread of the virus, Kaigama reportedly prayed “that Nigeria and Nigerians will pass through this difficult time with sobriety and equanimity and come of out with a greater and genuine sense of love for God and neighbours.” Similarly, Uche prayed for God to console the President and family of the deceased. According to the statement, the President also received separate messages of condolence from the pioneer national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Bisi Akande; and presidential candidate in the June 12, 1993 election, Alhaji Bashir Tofa. Others were former President of the Senate, Senator Adolphus Wabara; the President, Nigeria Olympic Committee, Habu Gumel; and the Soun of Ogbomosholand, Oba Oladunni Ajagungbade III. In separate development, another church leader has urged Buhari to accept the death of Kyari as an “act of God”. The Supreme Head, C & S Unification Church of Nigeria, His Most Eminence, Prophet Solomon Adegboyega Alao, in his condolence message to the President noted that the late CoS would be remembered for his loyalty to the country and the President. While urging all Nigerians, irrespective of their creed or race, to pray for leaders and health workers as they expose themselves every day to fight coronavirus, he said the death of Kyari should be a pointer to the fact that the virus was not a respecter of anybody and pleaded with Nigerians to obey all instructions against the spread of the virus. The cleric said it was unfortunate to note that some Nigerians still doubted the reality of COVID-19 in the country. He was an asset, says Tor Tiv Similarly, the paramount ruler of Tiv nation, Prof. James Ayatse, described Kyari, as an astute administrator and well-bred Nigerian who contributed immensely to the development of the country. The Tor Tiv described Kyari as an asset to Nigeria, stating that he would be greatly missed. Ayatse, who is also the chairman, Benue State Council of Traditional Rulers, added that Kyari was a gatekeeper who coordinated sensitive activities of government and ensured they remained in tandem with the policy thrust of the administration. The monarch, in the statement by his media assistant, Freddy Adamgbe, said having been a friend and confidant of the President for over forty two years, his demise  would in no small measure had devastated the President. He urged the President to take solace in the fact that the late Kyari lived a fulfilled life with indelible prints that would linger for ages. He said the Tiv nation and Benue State Council of Traditional Rulers was deeply saddened by the death of Kyari. His death, a blow – Gbagi Again, Kyari’s death has been described as a blow to the Buhari’s regime. A former Minister of State for Education, Olorogun Gbagi, has given the description in a statement on Monday while commiserating with Buhari over the death of Kyari. He said Kyari’s death had created a vacuum in Buhari’s regime that would be difficult to fill. He said, “I became acquainted with Mallam Abba Kyari as the Managing Director of Geekos Security Nigerian Limited, whilst he was the managing director of UBA Plc. “His passing at a time like this has dealt a severe blow to the nation and the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “He was a key player within the administration who was renowned for his unwavering commitment to the Nigerian project. Kyari was indeed a man of solid principles who demonstrated same by his staunch loyalty to the President and his party, the All Progressives Congress.” It’s shocking  –Abia APC The All Progressive Congress, APC Abia State chapter has described the late Kyari as a wonderful man whose death came as a huge shock. According to the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Benedict Godson, Kyari’s “calm nature and experience to forge strong ties between the presidency and the entire Federal Executive Council, strengthened the bond between the forum and the administration with wisdom, foresight and utmost humility. “Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress therefore commiserates with our dear President Muhammadu Buhari and the immediate family of the late Chief of Staff and urge them to take his good works for the growth of our dear nation as something to be proud of.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.