Samuel Awoyinfa Members of the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria have said they jointly spend N119bn monthly on generating power for production. They also kicked against the proposed electricity tariff increase by the eleven distribution companies. The body said the N119bn was outside the electricity bills members pay to Discos, arguing that any form of tariff increase would lead to a rise in the cost of production and could trigger unemployment. The OPSN consists of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, Nigeria Employers Consultative Association, Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists. In a joint statement made available to our correspondent, they argued that though Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission had stopped the Discos from their proposed tariff increase fixed for April 1, there was a plan by the Discos to effect the increase later in the year. They noted that the recent nationwide stakeholders’ engagements and the review panel sessions with the 11 Discos alluded to the fact that there could still be an increase in electricity tariff this year. The OPSN also made reference to the statement from the Ministry of Power which stated that tariffs would only be raised if the Discos improved quality and supply, bridge the metering gap to consumers and agree with consumers on rates. While they lamented that the OPSN spent N119bn monthly on generating electricity for production of products apart from what they paid on electricity bills from Discos, they said the prevailing macroeconomic fundamentals including the backlash of COVID-19 were not conducive for an upward review in electricity tariff. The statement read in part, “The OPSN is not in support of any minor, major and extra-ordinary tariff review or the proposed upward review in electricity in an economy that just came out of recession. “It is currently experiencing fragile growth; such extra-ordinary upward review will be counterproductive on consumption and productivity. “The proposed increase in electricity is not business friendly, and will have a catastrophic impact on the real sector; spell doom for the small and medium companies; and further inflict misery on the citizenry. “Therefore, the proposed tariff increase should be suspended in the best interest of the Nigerian economy. Any form of increase in electricity in the face of inadequate electricity supply, high electricity tariff and exorbitant cost of self-generated electricity up to the tune of N119bn (excluding billions of naira spent on settling monthly electricity bills) is not business friendly as this will further spike the cost of doing business with consequential upward spiral effects on unemployment rate.” The OPSN said even if electricity tariff could not be reduced, it should not be increased, because “any increase in tariff will reinforce the already high cost of doing business for the private sector and further depress productivity in the manufacturing sector.” While they recognised the efforts of the NERC in its regulatory interventions, they warned the regulatory agency “not to be seen as colluding with those to be regulated to milk Nigerians dry only to spoon-feed those to be regulated with the same milk.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 