Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Monday called for an investigation into allegation of fraud, stealing and looting of funds in the Niger Delta Development Commission under the All Progressives Congress-led administration. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement, also alleged that the NDDC, under the current management, had become an Automated Teller Machine  for  alleged corrupt APC leaders. According to him, the public space is awash with allegations of looting of billions of naira from the NDDC meant for the development of the Niger Delta through shady contracts, diversion and shady procurement deals by officials in a manner akin to the looting in the National Health Insurance Scheme. The PDP spokesman called on the National Assembly to commence an investigation into the books of the NDDC, recover the alleged looted funds and channel the money to projects meant for the well-being of Nigerians. Ologbondiyan said, “This is in addition to flimsy denials on the alleged attempt by certain interests to fraudulently funnel N5.5bn out of the NDDC coffers under the guise of procuring kits for the COVID-19 pandemic, a development which also trails reports that the NDDC had already spent over N1.045bn purportedly for supply of kits and palliatives to Nigerians in nine states. “The PDP however rejects the attempt by the NDDC management to divert attention from the issues at stake, particularly by alluding to faceless detractors while at the same time opting for internal investigation of the N5.5bn COVID-19 contract allegation, instead of referring the matter to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. “Such resort to internal investigation only points to a desperate attempt at concealment, which in turn validates allegations of complicity at very high level. It is more disheartening to note that such humongous looting, manipulations and concealments are going on in a commission like the NDDC under an administration that claims to have zero tolerance for corruption. “Moreover, the PDP invites Nigerians to observe that top officials appointed by President Buhari to oversee the NDDC include individuals with corruption charges from their previous public assignments, including as state governors. “Our party therefore urges the National Assembly to commence an investigation into the books of the NDDC under the present management, recover the looted funds and channel the money to the projects meant for the well-being of Nigerians as contained in the budget of the commission.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.   