Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command, on Monday, announced the arrest of 51 persons for protesting against the lockdown order in the state to curb the spread of COVID-19. PUNCH Metro learnt that some residents of the Eleko community in the Ibeju-Lekki area of the state protested the alleged favouritism on the part of the government and the security agencies in implementing the order. Our correspondent gathered that youths made bonfires on the road leading to some companies, including the Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical complex in the area. The residents accused the security agents of being biased, adding that expatriates were being allowed to go to their places of work, while the residents were forced to stay in their houses. A Twitter user, Martins Olowooyile, said, “@jidesanwoolu kindly see to the on-going crisis in Ibejulekki. From Idaso, Tiye, Akodo, Orofun, Orimedu, Magbo, Eleko it has been a case between the indigene and the security agencies, this is because some Indians are been allowed to go work while there’s a lockdown.” Another user, @Israel69034872, tweeted, “There’s a protest going on now in Ibeju-Lekki due to Dangote Refinery, not shut down and two foreigners have died as a result of COVID-19 but hide it… Dangote fertilizer and Refinery still operating thereby exposing people to the virus. The news won’t see this.” Another Twitter user, Chuka Stanley, wrote, “Idaso in Ibeju-Lekki LGA Lagos state Nigeria is in fire because of impartiality of Nigeria govt allowing Dangote Refinery workers (Indians and Chinese) working and they are earning salaries with no regards to Nigeria citizens staying at home with no money.” However, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said the protesters injured five policemen and destroyed two police outstations in the area. He stated, “Some of the workers, who were no longer allowed to work on construction sites in the Lekki Free Trade Zone because of the lockdown order, protested and went violent. “The youth went violent because they said they were tired of staying at home and they needed money, because they live on daily income; so, they took to the street and started attacking anybody they saw and they injured five policemen and destroyed two of our outstations in the area. “We responded swiftly and deployed our anti-riot team in the area to reinforce the policemen on the ground and the situation was quickly brought under control. Fifty-one suspects were arrested; we are still investigating and we will charge them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. 