James Abraham, Jos A member of the Plateau State House of Assembly, Mr. Gwottson Fom, has faulted the lockdown order issued by Governor Simon Lalong. The governor had on Monday announced a weeklong statewide lockdown effective from Thursday, April 9, 2020, in a bid to curtail the spread of the coronavirus. Although Plateau State is yet to record any case of coronavirus infection, the governor had said the measure was to allow for the fumigation of the 17 council areas in the state. However, in an open letter addressed to the governor, on Wednesday, the lawmaker who represents Jos South Constituency, wondered why the governor would lock down the state without following proper procedure including seeking budgetary approval from the state House of Assembly before taking such a decision. The letter read in part, “Plateau people will like to know what areas will be subject to the fumigation. It is necessary to know which parts will be affected directly so as to better prepare citizens who are going to be affected. “What is going to be the medium of fumigation and what chemicals will be used in the exercise? “Will the rains that have started becoming constant, not adversely affect the fumigation? “How much has been approved for the exercise and who or which body made the approval? “Was the Plateau State House of Assembly involved in the approval of a supplementary budget approval or did the money come from another source that the Plateau people should be informed about? “What other measures and plans does the Plateau State Government have to ensure that if there is a real danger of disease and hunger in Plateau State that we are prepared to deal with the situation in a very transparent and forthright manner.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 