Deji Lambo A power distribution firm, Ikeja Electric, has assured residents of the Aina-Aladi community in the Agbado-Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area of Lagos State and the Sparklight Estate in the Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State that their grievances will soon be addressed. The communities had accused the firm of throwing them into darkness for protesting against  outrageous charges that did not reflect their actual consumption. However, the spokesman for the IE, Felix Ofulue, asked both communities to write to the firm detailing their complaints to the power firm and their grievances would be looked into. PUNCH Metro gathered that the crisis between the residents of the Aina-Aladi community and the electricity distribution company began when the transformer supplying power to the community became faulty and the firm’s officials allegedly refused to repair it for 10 months. During this period, the residents faced hardship and allegedly contributed over N600,000 to repair the transformer and restore power to the community. The 1st Vice-Chairman of the community, Gideon Famakinwa, said after 10 months’ darkness, power was restored to the community, but they barely enjoyed it for over a month when IE officials started circulating bills for accumulated electrical charges for the period that power was not supplied. When the residents refused to pay, Famakinwa said IE officials stormed the community with armed riot policemen to disconnect residents without prepaid meters from the transformer. He stated, “In February 2019, our transformer parked up and the IE officials took it for repairs and we were in darkness for 10 months. During the period, the IE manager, one Kazeem, and marketer, Omobor, told us to contribute money to buy a cable for the transformer and for conveying it back to the community. So, we levied residents and we were able to raise over N600,000, which was given to Kazeem. “On January 10, 2020, the transformer was returned to the community, and 10 days after, power was restored. We had barely enjoyed the power for a month when the marketer started circulating bills for accumulated electrical charges for us to pay. Some residents were charged as high as N400,000. “When the IE officials realised that people were not paying for the period that power was not supplied, Kazeem and Omobor mobilised riot policemen to the community and started disconnecting the households without prepaid meters. “The riot policemen even fired shots in the air to scare people away during the disconnection. We are surprised that they want us to pay bills for 2019 when power was not supplied. We feel cheated and we want the concerned authorities to intervene.” In a similar development, residents of Sparklight Estate in Isheri, off the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, are in distress over the alleged lackadaisical manner in which the IE officials have been handling power supply to the estate for over one month. The residents of the Phase 2 area of the estate decried the lack of power supply for 33 days and said the situation had made living in the estate unbearable for them. One of the residents, Kanayo Esinulo, said before the transformer powering the estate was installed, the residents contributed N4m to purchase a new transformer, adding that the transformer developed a fault eight months after the IE officials installed it. He stated, “Our initial protest was that eight months was so short a time for a new transformer to develop such a serious fault. We must add that Ikeja Electric demanded and received the sum of N4m from residents before installing the transformer that packed up. Was it a new transformer that was supplied to us? Or was it a refurbished one? What is causing problems with transformers installed at the phase two area of the Sparklight Estate? “Why are the cables and wires always snapping whenever it rains or the wind blows? Why is it taking 33 days for a transformer to be returned or a new one to be brought as a replacement, and why keep innocent residents in darkness for these number of days for no fault of theirs?” PUNCH Metro learnt that even though there was no power supply for over a month, the company had served the residents bills. The exorbitant electrical charges, however, spurred the residents to protest to the IE offices to express their grievances over the issue. Another resident, Kayode Ajayi, said, “The executive and some residents went to the IE offices to protest the situation and to complain that we have not had power supply for over a month, yet, they brought outrageous bills of between N10,000 and N30,000 in the period that power was not supplied. “We went to their offices in Oregun, Ojodu and Alausa to protest and they told the executive that they will negotiate. But why will their officials bring outrageous bills when power was not supplied? Our people gave them four conditions and out of the four conditions, they said one could not be met. “Formerly, we used to be on the 11kva transformer, but they took us away from it and connected us to a 33kva transformer and ever since, we have been having problems.” However, the estate’s Secretary, Bidemi Olaiya, refuted the claim that the money contributed by the residents was to purchase a new transformer, explaining that it was used to offset the accumulated debt incurred by the residents. He said, “We had issues in 2018 when the transformer broke down for three months. But after three months, the IE brought another transformer, which later broke down. We thought it was something minor and couldn’t confirm if the transformer was new or not, because the transformer was not purchased by the residents. “We as the executive would not have asked anybody to pay for the transformer. The IE officials explained to us that the accumulated charges owed by residents were about N5m; so, it was like a deal to clear the accumulated debts before they could give us another transformer. But we said we could not raise N5m. The residents started contributing N40,000 each, which was paid on each person’s bill.” ”Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.