Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja The National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure has said it will collaborate with the Yobe State University, Damaturu, to tackle insurgency in the North-East by deploying technology to create jobs for youths. The Executive Vice Chairman of NASENI, Prof. Mohammed Haruna, said it would be difficult for the Boko Haram sect and other insurgents to recruit youths in the area if they had jobs. In line with the planned collaboration, the Vice Chancellor of Yobe State University, Prof. Yakubu Muhktar, led a delegation from the institution to a meeting with the management of NASENI at the agency’s headquarters in Abuja. Speaking at the meeting, Haruna said the insurgency in the North-East had continued largely because of the high rate of unemployment among youths, men and women. “The absence of viable economic alternatives for youths and men in those areas has made them vulnerable to crime,” he said, noting that it would be impossible for the insurgents to recruit people who had reasonable means of livelihood. “If the mineral resources available in the North-East, especially in Yobe State, are harnessed using technological tools available in NASENI, the youths would be gainfully employed and this naturally would turn them away from the activities of the insurgents, which expose them to danger. “The collaboration between NASENI and Yobe State University would see to the training of unemployed youths in the area in new skills through waste to wealth technologies that are available in NASENI,” he said. Noting that Yobe State was blessed with mineral resources, Haruna observed that if the state government could partner NASENI, youths in the state would be trained on how to use locally-developed technology to harness the minerals. He said the agency would deploy locally-produced machines such as the small hydro kinetic turbine for water projects and irrigation in the North-East. Solar panels produced by NASENI could also be used to generate electricity in the area, according to Haruna. “The schools that were destroyed by Boko Haram could be refurbished by providing educational tools, especially primary and secondary laboratory equipment that can be powered by solar energy,” he said. Muhktar commended NASENI for its efforts at the development of engineering infrastructure. According to Muhktar, if technological and human resources available in NASENI are properly harnessed, Nigeria will be transformed. The don also lauded NASENI’s interventions in various sectors of the economy through research, development and production of engineering and technological tools. He said, “I believe that the collaboration between NASENI and the Yobe State University will add value not only to the university but also Yobe State, including reduction in insurgency. “There are technologies available in the agency that can be used to address these challenges. “We are here to look for necessary areas of collaboration that would help the university to address youth unemployment.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com