Patrick Odey, Uyo A socio-cultural organisation in Akwa Ibom State, the Ekid Nation, on Tuesday, lamented that its people in Eket and Esit Eket had been neglected for too long in the development agenda of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s administration. The group maintained that its people had been unfairly treated despite being the core oil-producing areas contributing greatly to the nation’s prosperity. The group, in a communiqué issued at the end of its national congress in Esit Eket, noted that Eket and Esit Eket areas had been neglected and deprived of key infrastructure, especially roads. The communiqué was signed by the group’s President, Prof. Asindi Asindi, and Chairman, Planning Committee of the Congress, Prof. Des Wilson. The communiqué read, “It was noted that the story of Ekid nation as far as oil exploration is concerned, has been a litany of woes and pains. “The people of Ekid, over the years, have suffered painfully from environmental degradation, resource depletion and deprivation. “We are also experiencing biodiversity losses arising from continuous gas flaring, incessant oil spillage with very low access to the benefits of oil and gas exploration in their land. “This situation is very appalling and pathetic. “Virtually all roads in Eket, which is the headquarters of Akwa Ibom South Senatorial District, are in very deplorable conditions. “The union appeals to the state government to facilitate the renewal of Eket,  and rehabilitate the bad roads in the area as they remain the gateway to the international community through oil companies doing business in the land,” it said. The group further called on the state government to construct a  ring road connecting the four local government areas of Eket,  Esit Eket,  Onna and Ibeno which are the primary oil-producing areas in the state. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com