James Abraham, Jos Nurses in Plateau State say they are no longer safe working in the North-East. Boko Haram has wreaked havoc in the  North-East, particularly in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states,  since its inception in 2002. Addressing a  press conference in Jos on Monday,  the chairman of the Plateau State chapter of the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives, Mrs Briskila Dabit,  lamented that a number of nurses had either been killed or abducted by Boko Haram fighters. Dabit  said the situation must be urgently  addressed if nurses were to continue to render humanitarian services in the region. She said,  “As a professional body, we are not happy about the frequent abduction of our  colleagues in the North-East, the recent being that of Jennifer Samuel Ukambong, an aide worker attached  to the  Alliance for International Medical  Action. She   was kidnapped on  December 22, 2019, and has not been released by the terrorists. “According to our findings, quite a number of aid workers in the North-East are either citizens of Plateau State or attended  school in our dear state. Recently, we received some of Jennifer Ukambong’s colleagues in Jos, who lamented how they felt unsafe working in the North-East.” Describing the situation as unacceptable, the nurses  called on  Governor Simon Lalong, who is the  chairman of  the Northern Governors’ Forum, to   use his position to secure the unconditional release of Jennifer and other Nigerians still in Boko Haram captivity. They  also called on the government to look into the activities of international organisations recruiting Nigerians to work in the  North-East   with a view of ensuring that they complied with international best safety standards. Dabit said,  “The emotional and psychological stress our colleagues are passing through in the North-East are as a result of unemployment in the state is unacceptable. “We call on the state government to lift employment embargo so that  nurses can be recruited, while the Federal Government should provide adequate security for aid workers that are rendering humanitarian services in the North-East and other parts of Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  