Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission has warned against the use of its office as a tool of victimisation. The ICPC Chairman, Bolaji Owasanoye, gave the warning while delivering a speech at the inauguration of the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit at the Federal Polytechnic, Ede, Osun State. A statement by Sola Lawal, the Public Relations Officer of the polytechnic on Sunday, said the ICPC chairman represented by Shuaib Baba Alaro, also charged those selected to work in the anti-corruption unit to liaise with the office of the chief executive of the institution to assist in fighting corruption. He also explained that Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit as an initiative was not intended to subsume the authority of management under its wings. He added that it would rather complement the management, especially in mainstreaming a positive anti-corruption culture where it might be lacking. Owasanoye said, “The unit is an institutional ethics and anti-corruption instrument designed to operate as an autonomous outfit with functional linkages with the office of the Chief Executive, to help in fighting corruption and eliminating corruption and eliminating corrupt practices in the workplace. “Please note that the ACTU initiative is not intended to subsume the authority of management under its wings, rather it is to complement them, especially in mainstreaming a positive anti-corruption culture where it may be lacking. “Let me sound a note of warning that those who are stepping into this onerous assignment should not use their office as a tool of witch-hunt or use it to victimise other staff, rather you should all work hard to gain the support of both the management and staff of this institution in order to achieve positive results, and to justify the trust bestowed on you.” In his remarks, Rector of the institution, Dr John Adekolawole, admonished the polytechnic community to cooperate with the Federal Government in making sure that society was rid of corruption and other vices. He pledged support for the anti-corruption unit of the polytechnic in order for it to achieve it mandate. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com