Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The children of a vegetable seller in Ede, Osun State, Iyabo Olukunle, who was stabbed to death by a soldier on January 2, 2020, have demanded compensation. Since the incident happened, the children said they had not been contacted by the military authorities on the plans for her burial or compensation for the family. Iyabo was reportedly stabbed to death at the Barrack junction, Ede, on Thursday, the day she clocked 39. Information on the deceased’s voter card indicated that she was born on January 2, 1981. Sources in the area said the assailant also stabbed another soldier to death and wounded several others before he was eventually overpowered by some of his colleagues. The eldest child of the deceased  woman, Bosede, said her mother had five children, including a one-year-old boy. One of the children of the deceased, who witnessed the incident, Tosin, told our correspondent that the soldier, who stabbed her mother to death, was called Blessed. He said her mother and Blessed were co-tenants, adding that since the soldier returned from an assignment in the North in November, he had been displaying signs of mental instability. According to him, the late Iyabo heard a noise outside her room and she rushed out to find out what the problem was. READ ALSO: Enugu command parades three cops for assaulting man Tosin stated, “The incident happened around 10pm. The noise she heard was that of Mummy Godwin. She is Blessed’s wife. Her husband stabbed her and Godwin, their only child. “When my mother rushed out and saw the soldier holding a dagger, she was scared and wanted to run, but my one-year-old brother that she was carrying fell from her. “In an attempt to pick up the boy, the soldier caught up with her and stabbed her till she died. Blessed had earlier stabbed his wife and son Godwin.” Tosin said some soldiers from the Ede Engineering Construction Company later came around and restrained Blessed. He added that the soldiers also took her mother’s corpse away. A brother to the husband of the deceased, Kabir Alimi, told our correspondent that a delegation from the army barracks in Ede had visited the family. Efforts to get an official reaction proved futile as a text message sent to the army spokesperson since Friday had not been responded to as of the time of filing this story, while calls to the line rang out. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 