Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Ogun State Police Command has arrested a motorist, who allegedly mobilised hoodlums to attack the patrol team of the state command of the Federal Road Safety Corps at the Mowe area. PUNCH Metro learnt that the motorist, who drove a Toyota Corolla car with number plate KTU 828 CF, had on Sunday allegedly mobilised some hoodlums to attack some FRSC officers after he was stopped for driving against the traffic. It was gathered that while one of the officers was explaining the danger of his action to him, the driver and the hoodlums attacked the team members and escaped. Our correspondent learnt that two telephones and a spare tyre belonging to the patrol team were lost to the fracas. However, the Ogun State Sector Commander, FRSC, Clement Oladele, stated that the driver was tracked through the National Vehicle Identification Scheme and was called to report to any of the corps offices but he chose to report to the Mowe Police Station and the spare tyre was found in his vehicle. Oladele said, “The FRSC patrol team in Mowe was attacked by the driver of a Toyota Corolla car with number plate KTU 828 CF, who was stopped for driving against the traffic on January 5, 2020, on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, but instigated some miscreants nearby to join him in attacking and obstructing the patrol team from discharging its duties and thereafter escaped arrest. “A diligent search from the National Vehicle Identification Scheme database tracked the driver, who was called on the phone to report to the nearest FRSC command. He, however, reported himself to the Nigeria Police in Mowe and the DPO handed him over to the FRSC. “Upon bringing the arrested driver’s vehicle to the FRSC premises in Mowe, the missing spare tyre of the FRSC patrol vehicle after the Sunday incident was found in the driver’s car. He is being charged for assault, theft and causing injuries to the FRSC personnel while performing their lawful duties.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 