Samson Folarin After being silent for months, the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi,  Lagos, said it had commenced investigation into the controversial doctorate of its acting Director-General, Chima Igwe. The Chairman of the Governing Board of the institute, Alhaji Ibrahim Gwarzo, said in a statement on Sunday that FIIRO would get to the bottom of the matter and take appropriate steps. Igwe, 57, is in the eye of the storm more than 18 years after claiming to have bagged a doctorate from the Universite Abomey-Calavi, Benin Republic, without a certificate to show for it. He had been promoted several times based on the claim, which became contentious after he was appointed the acting director-general. Several ultimatums given to him to produce the certificate ended without any result as the matter also became a subject of investigation by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission. After the ICPC delayed in releasing the outcome of its investigation, The PUNCH correspondent visited the university in Benin Republic and was informed that Igwe had yet to complete his studies. The ICPC later cleared Igwe, saying he duly obtained the certificate. When the school denied giving any government agency such information, the anti-graft agency said it had reopened investigation into the matter. Some groups and labour unions subsequently called for Igwe’s suspension. Gwarzo said the institute had established contact with the Benin Republic institution. “I have noted with concern the issues raised. We have put in place some strong internal mechanisms to attend to the issues. We are talking with the school and also waiting for the outcome of the ICPC’s renewed investigation. We will forward a detailed response to you very soon,” Gwarzo stated while responding to our correspondent’s enquiry. It is not clear if Igwe will be suspended in accordance with public service rules. Our correspondent learnt from sources that tension had mounted in the institute as the various labour unions had threatened a showdown with the management. A union official, who asked not to be identified, said past directors-general and administrative managers of the institute should be made to explain their roles in Igwe’s promotion. READ ALSO: Ex-convict arrested for snatching phone in Lagos The two immediate former directors-general of the institute are Dr Oluwole Olatunji and Prof. Gloria Elemo. The union official said, “The admin, in particular, is in charge of certificates and they look into them. They had done several certificate evaluations in FIIRO. How did Igwe’s case escape them? Why did they look at others’ certificates without checking his? “Before anybody can become a chief research officer, they will check his thesis, among other things. How did he scale through? And before one becomes a director, they usually demand the thesis and certificates. How did he escape that? All the vetting officials are still alive and should be questioned.” Another FIIRO worker queried the silence of the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, who was accused of backing Igwe despite the controversy surrounding his qualification. The worker lamented that the matter was causing “serious image crisis” for the institute. A former admin manager at FIIRO, Mr Sesan Akinwusi, said Igwe had become a deputy director by the time he got to the institute. He added, “I was not aware that there was no certificate. As a researcher, he was not supposed to become a deputy director without a PhD. That is the rule. But by the time I got to FIIRO in 2004, he was already a deputy director. “When he was to become a director, it was a function of the board of directors. There was already no question whether he had the certificate; it was assumed that he had it. I was not aware that he did not have a PhD,” Olatunji and Elemo have yet to respond to enquiries from our correspondent on their roles in the matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 