Peter Dada, Akure A governorship aspirant in  the ruling All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, Mr Ife Oyedele, has said the people of the state are suffering because there are no leadership plans by the current administration in the state. Oyedele, who is the Executive Director of the Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited (Engineering and Technical Services), said those running the affairs of the state were doing so as if they were running a family business. He stated this while addressing members of the APC in Oka Akoko, the headquarters of the Akoko South West Local Government Area of the state, during an empowerment programme for women. The programme was organised by the senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice. Oyedele said, “No indigene of Ondo State today can be proud of the current situation of the state. “This year makes the 44th year that Ondo State was created. I don’t think there is any building within the state that has potable water from the government. “In some parts of the state, people have been battling with electricity blackout for over 10 years. “They only rely on the ‘I better pass my neighbour generator.’  What this means is that a child of about 10 years of age has never seen electricity from the national grid. “What we have in Ondo State today is the government of the governor and wife and for his children.” He however denied that the party was engulfed in crisis. He declared that the APC, as a party, would retain power in 2021. Also on the occasion, two leaders of the party in the state,  Chief Olusola Oke and Jimi Odimayo, said there were better days coming ahead for the people of the state. However, the chairman of the party, Mr Ade Adetimehin, said Akeredolu was sure of getting the ticket of the APC and later winning the forthcoming governorship election, going by his performance in the last three years of his administration. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 