Electronic payment has become increasingly popular in Nigeria as a result of prevalent use of the internet-based shopping and banking. NIKE POPOOLA looks at how Open Banking can enhance the system Committee of e-business heads have said the development of Open Banking in the country will boost e-payments, enhance collaboration and drive financial inclusion. Under Open Banking, banks open up their Application Programming Interfaces to allow third parties to access financial information needed to develop new apps and services. This provides account holders greater financial transparency options. The APIs are a set of codes and protocols that decide how different software components should interact. They essentially allow different applications to communicate with one another. Open Banking addresses the challenge confronting many bank customers especially those with multiple bank accounts. Such customers have to visit the branches of each bank, or use their different mobile apps before they can access or use their money in any of the different bank accounts. Open Banking addresses this challenge by creating an arrangement that gives the customer the opportunity to share his financial details in different financial institutions with approved third parties, hence making it possible to access and utilise those details via third party apps. According to a report by PwC Nigeria, “Open banking means that no matter how many accounts and financial products a customer has, they can view and manage them from a centralised location. Open Banking lets customers have increased control over their data while supporting the innovation everyone yearns to see more of.” The Committee of E-Business Heads identified Open Banking as a critical factor in its quest to boost electronic payment growth through collaboration and innovation. CeBIH comprises upper echelon of electronic business industry practitioners in all banks, with the objective of promoting e-banking services in line with global best practices, while driving adoption through right policies, standards, technologies and public awareness. The Chairman, CeBIH, Stanley Jacob, at the annual retreat of the group in Abeokuta, Ogun State, said, “As industry practitioners, we have identified digital partnerships and open architecture as major recipes for accelerating growth in payments.” He noted that CeBIH was of the opinion that with Open Banking, the industry would merge and do better, and there would be free flow of data following best practices, and the cost-to-serve would be considerably lowered for the customer. “We are working closely with the Trustees of Open Banking Nigeria, we are also advocating that the regulators continue to create an enabling environment for this to thrive, the overall objective is to create more value around the payment lifestyle of the customer and build an ecosystem driven by a healthy competition,” Jacob said. In line with this mission to drive Open Banking in Nigeria, he said CeBIH’s annual  retreat, with the theme, ‘Payment 2020plus: The next frontiers of payments,’  featured a session on Open Banking which discussed the prospects and requirements of Open Banking  in Nigeria  as well as  benefits for customers and service providers in the electronic payment ecosystem. Open Banking empowers bank customers to get better deals from the opportunities in collaboration and innovation among industry players. The Chief Digital Officer, Sterling Bank, Olayinka Oni, said, “Open Banking is a collaborative way in which you have to share your data. The sharing of the data is at the discretion of the customer not necessarily anybody else. “So the customer is the one saying I want to share my data with this particular person and I am able to enjoy whatever service that person is offering. “So whether I bank with Bank A or Bank C, I want a situation where I am able to then say, all of my information that sits in these several banks, present it to me and even match that data into a single point.  The customer is really in control and it is basically ensuring that the customers can control their destiny. “Open Banking will drive new iteration of services as well as enable all kinds of faster payment and easy payments. Customers will then be able to provide their accounts data and make it fluid and available as required. It means I can share my personal data and basically use it to drive authentication services.” With Open Banking, he said, customers will be able to communicate with the banks through Google, Alexa and other Internet based cognitive services. Speaking on benefits of Open Banking and its impact on financial inclusion, Oni said, “The customer’s needs are diverse and often times as banks we cannot create all of these solutions as it were but through Open Banking, I can definitely serve my customers a lot more. “For example in the United Kingdom where every bank is expected to sign on to open banking, no matter what the need of the customer demand will come from, there would be somebody solving that problem in the market and because maybe I am Barclays Bank, and I have joined Open Banking, then my customers will be a lot more potentially satisfied. “With Open Banking, banks would then be able to then explore market opportunities, which we may not have potentially exploited. This can truly help us extend ecosystem players potentially. We would actually increase the pie. “Right now we are all fishing within this old over-banked customers but I think if we really use this to drive our financial inclusion agenda, what will happen is that we will increase the pie as it were, and obviously all of us will be bigger. Ultimately it will drive revenue stream.” Oni added, “We have to do a lot of engagement. The OBN has been doing a lot of advocacy, and a lot of that, with partnerships with several other quarters including deposit money banks, will then only form the efficiency around some of these things.” A Trustee of Open Technology, Ope Adeoye, said Open Banking would facilitate the partnership needed to drive innovation in the e-payment space, especially partnership between Fintechs and banks. He said, “In trying to do partnership with banks, it is so hard to execute a partnership with Bank A and think you can do the same with Bank B equally easily. You probably have to go through a painful process bank to bank. “By the time you do that with 23 banks, it will probably take you four to five years to get your product or initiative to the market. The thinking then is that if such common standards existed, then innovation can move faster, and this pain is not just on the Fintech side, even the banks as well. “As a bank you will like to partner with a vendor, and when you think of the fear of backing it internally, IT, operations, those things just slow you down as a bank. “So my thinking is that if we have Open Banking in Nigeria as well, a lot of the innovations that we thought were not possible within the time that you have, you can now free your mind as an organisation to explore those things.” A major barrier to achieving Open Banking in Nigeria is misconception about its meaning, especially among banks. On how Open Banking Nigeria is addressing this challenge, Adeoye, said, “While there is a misconception that Open Banking equals  PSD 2, that it equals force everyone to open up and partner with anyone who come knocking down the door, we think we can self organise, define some standards, define some kind of trust based rule that says every bank is independent. “Every bank is just connecting to a set of standards and every bank can chose who they partner with, the rule under which they partner with those people, the commercial terms under which they partner with those people, and define that as a basis for Open Banking in Nigeria. So that whenever the regulation comes, it will be hard for such regulation to then say, ‘by force Open Banking should be like this.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com