Ada Wodu, Calabar Family members, friends, and others took to the streets of Calabar on Saturday to protest the whereabouts of a broadcaster, Mr. Peter Tex Etim, who was abducted by unidentified gunmen a year ago close to his place of work. The protesters marched from 12 Chamley Street ( Peter Tex’s residence) to the premises of the Cross River Broadcasting Corporation where he worked, to Watt Market and back to Peter Tex’s residence. Briefing journalists, son of the broadcaster, Mr. Alexander Etim, who spoke on behalf of the family, said it’s unfortunate that about a year ago their father was abducted by unidentified persons. He said it’s so pathetic that to date their father’s whereabouts could not be ascertained and that no one knows if he is dead or alive. “It’s been one year of unanswered questions, pains, trauma, high expectations and indeed we still continue to expect the return of our dear father, who is yet to return home to join his children. “There is still no word, no details, no breakthrough and no pleasant news about what happened to Peter-Tex,” Alexander said. He said despite the engagement of the police, DSS and other law enforcement agencies to unravel the mystery behind their father’s abduction, all efforts have been to no avail. “It’s been one year without our family head, our breadwinner, father,” he said, adding life has been unbearable. “For a year now, it’s still unknown what has happened to our father. We do not really know if he is still alive, if not where are his remains? “Who are the people who carried out these criminal operations? Are they still walking the streets of Calabar without any prize paid? “What can we do as family to turn the page on this matter? Should we believe that the man is dead? When he is supposed to be on active service to his state and one year after, with no trace to his whereabouts. These are questions that are still begging for answers,” he said. He appealed to the state government, security agencies and Peter’s colleagues in the media to do whatever is necessary to unravel the mystery behind the disappearance of the broadcaster.