Nike Popoola The management of Nestle Nigeria Plc has pledged to partner the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, Mowe & District Society to develop future accountants in the Mowe area of Ogun State and its environ. This indication was given when the Chairman of the ICAN, Mowe district, Dr Olusola Dada, led other representatives of the district to the Flowergate factory at the Sagamu Interchange. The Quality Assurance Manager, Nestle, Mrs Oluwaseun Ayeni, who represented the factory manager, said the company had invested a lot in community development and would be willing to support the ‘catch them young’ programme of the district, which was aimed at building capacity of the future leaders. She also spoke on some of the company’s products. For instance, she stated that the firm had been producing Maggi since 1886 globally, but started its production in Nigeria in 1966. The ICAN district leader pledged the commitment of the body in the area of in-house training and retraining of the Nestle’s accounts personnel. It also encouraged the company to sponsor more of its accountants to attend the institute’s programmes such as the MCPE and the annual conference, among others. During the visit, the district representatives were conducted round the factory to show the visitors the firm’s high level of quality assurance. The ICAN district leader also admonished the Federal Government to provide necessary infrastructure, particularly stable power supply and security to the Sagamu and the interchange environment. According to him, since the area plays host to several multinationals, the provision of stable power supply and other infrastructural facilities will reduce their costs of production and enhance the development of the axis. This, Dada said, would in turn lead to increased revenue to the government in form of taxes. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com