Success Nwogu, Abuja The Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, is working to make solar energy accessible to no fewer than two million households in the state, the Managing Partner, Global Head of Business, Triton Solar, Mr Bhagi Sandilya, has said. He stated that solar energy would revolutionise the economy of Oyo State in particular and Nigeria in general. He added that the governor had indicated commitment to industrial, economic and social development in the state through solar energy revolution. Sandilya spoke with our correspondent in Abuja on Wednesday on the sidelines of the visit of Triton Solar in partnership with Silicon Valley Nigeria Economic Development Inc, to Makinde. He explained that the governor had already set up a government team to liaise with Triton Solar and SV-NED to actualise the target. Sandilya said, “Solar energy will boost industrial revolution. Out of my 48 years of experience, I have visited various countries, met various governors and ministers, Makinde is the first one who has actually, within the first 45 minutes of conversation, shown great commitment. “He has put a two-member team comprising the chairman of the Renewable Energy Power and his executive secretary to work with us, review our materials and they are looking at the demos and impact reports. “The governor is thinking in a big way, not just few hundred or few thousands units of houses; he is looking at millions of units at the state-wide.  He is thinking about two to five million homes.” The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Silicon Valley Nigeria Economic Development Inc, Chief Temitope Ajayi, said Triton Solar’s plants would adopt nano technology, which she said, was the latest technology in the solar energy industry. She stated that the United States of America’s solar products were not only efficient but affordable. The Chairman, Nigeria China Community Association, Mr Ishola Olatunbosun, said solar power would boost industrialisation in Nigeria. He added that the proposed $300m solar plants of Triton Solar in Oyo, Lagos and Abuja would not only provide jobs but also accelerate economic and manufacturing activities. He said, “It has more value to the country. We advise our people to accept their package as they have a very good package. They are talking about $300m to invest in the country. It is part of development to Nigeria.” The Chief Executive Officer, Great City Power Solution, Dr M. Samson, urged industrialists to embrace solar energy to boost manufacturing activities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 