Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has called on traders and residents to cooperate with the state government to deliver the Rebisi, Rumuogba and Okoro-Nu-Odo flyovers on schedule. Wike on Thursday moved from shop to shop at Rebisi (former Garrison) and Rumuogba (former Artillery) flyover sites, appealing to the traders and residents to vacate the buildings marked for demolition. He said, “I have come to speak to them; let them appreciate our efforts better. Now, times are hard, but they have to understand with us. “I took it upon myself to personally explain to them that the time we notified them has elapsed. But I have extended it to Tuesday next week, after which demolition will start. I am here because I don’t want Julius Berger to give excuses. These bridges must be delivered on schedule.” Wike said though the exercise was painful, residents must contribute to ensure that the flyovers were delivered. “I am here to personally appeal to the people because I feel their pain. But this is a sacrifice everyone must make for the state to move forward. “To do three flyovers at the same time is not an easy task. Therefore, we must work hard to achieve the target. The target is that Julius Berger must hand over the three flyovers on February 20, 2021. “It is about one year from now; the time will elapse and people will start saying nothing was done. We don’t want such a situation,” the governor added. Wike said the state government had paid compensation to the owners of the marked houses, pointing out that they were duly notified that the demolition would take place. He, however, said he decided to visit the traders to give the entire process a human face. “I am here to give this construction process a human face. You supported me, but this is for the good of the people,” he said. Wike was accompanied by the officials of the Rivers State Ministry of Works and engineers of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc. The governor also inspected ongoing reconstruction of major roads in the Old GRA of Port Harcourt. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 