Feyisayo Popoola Blueprint Consulting has denied its involvement in the investment fraud perpetrated by one of its partners, Seye Onigbinde. Onigbinde, an ex-banker, was reported to have allegedly defrauded about 354 forex trade investors. He reportedly operated the scheme as a business venture named Blueprint Business Development and Consulting. Some of defrauded investors, who spoke with our correspondent on Friday, said they were convinced to put their money in the scheme, thinking it would bring fortunes. Saturday PUNCH reported that Onigbinde was being investigated by the police at the Area F Command, Ikeja, Lagos, led by ACP Akinbayo Olasoji, over a sum of N574.2m. He allegedly obtained the sum from his unsuspecting victims while promising them a monthly interest of 20 to 30 per cent. According to the police, the suspect claimed to have paid principal and interest to the tune of N482.3m, remaining an outstanding of N233.4m. The Managing Partner, Blueprint Consulting, Mr Tijani Adeyanju, while addressing a press conference, said the company was registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission to carry out the business of accounting services, training, tax advisory and business support services. He stated that Blueprint Consulting was not in the business of trading in foreign exchange or any allied services whatsoever. According to Adeyanju, Onigbinde traded in foreign exchange in his personal capacity and not as a partner in Blueprint Consulting. He said, “By trading in foreign exchange, Mr Seye Onigbinde breached the provisions of the object clause of the company as registered with the CAC. “If any paraphelia of the company was used by Onigbinde, he did it illegally without the consent and or authority of the other partners of the company. “We use this opportunity to indicate the readiness of Blueprint Consulting to indicate our availability to cooperate with the security agencies in their investigations of the allegations levied against Onigbinde.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com