Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of the Debt Management Office, Patience Oniha, spoke on issues concerning public debt management at an interactive session with some journalists in Abuja. IHUOMA CHIEDOZIE was there What informed the Federal Government’s penchant for borrowing? Most governments borrow; it is not just Nigeria, whether they are capitalists or migrating from socialism to capitalism. We borrow to finance specific projects and that is where the Medium Term External Borrowing Plan is situated. Every two years, the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Federal Government, presents that request to the Federal Executive Council. Loans from multilateral and bilateral sources – we are talking of institutions like the African Development Bank, confessional and semi-concessional borrowings; every two years, it goes to the National Assembly, that is why it is a medium-term programme. It goes to FEC first, that is what the Fiscal Responsibility Act says, and from there to the National Assembly. They (loans) are to be used to finance specific projects. Borrowing is derived from the Appropriation Act. Borrowing is a source of funding the budget deficit. About 90 per cent of the annual budget deficit is financed through borrowing. We know the process of approving the budget, the various stages it goes through by the time it is approved by the National Assembly and signed into law. It is really something that all of us collectively have approved. So, when people are talking about new borrowings we should be confident that this has gone through the rigour of the Federal Executive Council, where you are all represented by state, and the National Assembly, before it got there. We got out of recession in 2017. And what has happened? The level of new borrowings has been declining. We can borrow to refinance but I want to focus on financing activities and financing budget deficit. We are not just talking about figures in the air. Have the new borrowings been made by the government to conform to the Debt Management Strategy? Borrowing is not approved by one man; it is not determined by one man. It is a collective decision; so, when you say this administration has borrowed, previous administrations also borrowed. So borrowing is cumulative. There are rules and regulations for borrowing. So, the point being made is that borrowing is not ad hoc. It is not a decision of one man or one woman. There are laws and laid down procedures that have to be complied with. In fact, before the budget document is presented to the National Assembly, it must comply with the Fiscal Responsibility Act. We are actually complying with the laws. So, having the laws and the budget determines the nature of the borrowing. We also have the strategy. The budget says how much we should raise. Should we issue FGN bonds? Should it be five years? Should it be ten years? All that is driven by strategy. All that we did in 2017, 2018 and 2019 was driven by the strategy. So if you look at the budget, you will see that there is new domestic borrowing and new external borrowing for each of those years. It is because the strategy says domestic borrowing is less expensive, less risky than external. In addition to that, you have external because it also helps reserves, and you can get more longer tenure. It also says that the domestic debt portfolio has a lot of short-term instruments and thresholds. Thresholds have also been trending lately. So, let’s extend that to long-term. So that is why you saw us active in the Eurobond market in 2017 and 2018. And for treasury bills, we paid about a trillion naira in treasury bills. There is a strategy around it. The new Debt Management Strategy is being finalised and we expect that within a month it will be sent to the Federal Executive Council for approval. We set ourselves a domestic debt to external debt portfolio ratio of 60:40. We are at 68:32. Before we started implementing the RTP in 2017, we had less than 20 per cent in external debt and 80 per cent was domestic. We were accused of crowding out the private sector. We were accused of making the interest rate very high which was stopping the banks from lending to the real sector. We have been repenting of those things since 2017. In terms of the distribution of domestic debt between long term and short term, the target was 75 to 25 but as in September 2019, we were actually at 80 to 20, meaning we have overperformed the budget. The reason is that we stopped using treasury bills as a new borrowing instrument. Like I always said, government debt is to finance long-term projects so treasury bills cannot be the large part of our portfolio. What was the reason for the increase in public debt stock between June and September 2019? The figures as of September were the total public debt – Federal Government, states and the Federal Capital Territory. It is not the Federal Government alone. The increase between June and September, for that three-month period, we can explain that partly. There was an external borrowing that was included in the 2019 Appropriation Act, about N805bn. That one didn’t happen because we were confident as a government that the 2020 budget would be approved early. So, if we raise Eurobonds in September and budget ends in December, there is really no time to use that money for capital projects, which is what it was meant for. So, that was suspended and it will now happen in the 2020 Appropriation Act. For the 2019 budget, as of November, I can say that we have concluded the domestic borrowing and passed on the money to the Federal Government for appropriation. That explains why the growth is marginal but the overall growth by the end of the year will not be significant. The DMO recently said the country’s total public debt was not the responsibility of only one administration. But the debt stock rose considerably between 2015 and 2018. What is the justification for this? Yes, our total debt stock has grown between 2015 and 2018 but we want to explain that total public debt comprises the borrowings of the Federal Government and the states and the FCT. The narrative is that it was Buhari’s administration; but it is really the three tiers of government. We want Nigerians to keep it in mind that we are talking about the collective borrowings of the Federal Government, the states and the FCT. But the borrowing did not just happen; you know what happened to oil revenue; no need to go into that. But we borrow to bridge the revenue gap, to finance infrastructure so that jobs can be created and to stimulate growth. Again, it was not ad hoc; it was deliberate.  Also, when the naira was devalued from N199 to N305, if you convert the external debt we had at that time, without new borrowing, it increased by over a trillion naira. Budget deficits have been dropping since 2017, so also new borrowings. Is Nigeria’s debt sustainable? Debt sustainability is measured by debt to GDP ratio and in September, we had 18.47 per cent. The simplistic assumption to make is we have room for more borrowings; but that is not our position. If you look at the United States and other countries, they have much higher debt to GDP ratio. But when you compare their debt service to revenue, they are very low. They are able to service debt more effectively because they are generating revenue. Our focus should be on revenue and we are already doing something about it. New borrowings are reducing and we are trying to reduce the cost of borrowing but we can’t leave revenue out of the discussion. Revenue must grow. We are all happy about the Finance Act. And we hope that when NERC releases the new tariff, Nigerians will support it and pay. We are all stakeholders; we can’t complain about high debt service to revenue and not want government to generate revenue. It is a win-win on both sides; not you win and we lose. We have done a lot but we are not yet there. What do we need to do? Do we continue to borrow or focus on aggressive growth of revenue? So revenue can’t be missing from the equation. This is a time to look at Public-Private Partnerships because that will reduce the need for government to borrow. Then, we need to diversify because we can’t keep talking of oil. Sometimes when bad things happen in the Middle East, it turns out positive for the oil market. But that is not the way to grow an economy or develop an economy. Oil price has risen to $70 per barrel. Who says it can’t come down to 30 in a short while? We can’t depend on only when the price goes up; we have to look for more sustainable revenue sources. Let us be aware that new borrowings are a collective decision of the legislature and the executive and there are laws that make that happen. Let me also say this: I have said it before but sometimes the discussion becomes political. As long as I can remember, we have been running deficits in our budget. Whether oil prices was N110, N105 or production was over two million barrels per day, we have always run on a deficit. Unfortunately, crude oil price dropped, and production dropped, and we are borrowing and that becomes an issue. But most of the deficits in the budget have always been financed by new borrowings. So, the relatively high level of new borrowing between 2015 and 2017 was for the government to bridge the revenue gap but it wasn’t just a case of let’s do it. It was included in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. Are you saying that the borrowing was responsible for Nigeria’s recovery from recession? The point I made was that government revenue dropped. I think at a point, it dropped to $23 per barrel. Also, production dropped. So, borrowing came in to fund the budget, which included capital projects. When you finance capital projects, you create an entire economy around that in terms of employment; materials that you buy; and what happens in the environment. There are vendors selling a lot of things, so we are talking about the multiplier effect of borrowing to finance infrastructure and what it generates. It is just a simple economic theory. Some oil marketers protested that they were losing money from the promissory notes issued to them by the Federal Government. They said they were not getting the real value. Why is that so? Government took up responsibility to say we are giving promissory notes to those we owe. These were arrears prior to 2017. It is not like you did a contract for us now and we issue you a promissory note. They are arrears from some years back. It is voluntary on the part of the businessmen. You don’t have to take a promissory note. You can wait until when government has money in its budget to pay you. They have a sovereign instrument that they can take to the bank in exchange for cash but some of them actually owe banks heavily. The instrument is liquid – you can trade it like the FGN bonds and treasury bills. The banks will accept it and if the bearer of the promissory note does not owe them, the bank will give them the money. But if they owe the banks, the banks will take the promissory notes to liquidate the loans. We issue promissory notes at face value; we are not the ones giving loans. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com