Enyioha Opara, Minna Three suspected cattle rustlers have been arrested by the police in Niger State for forcefully stealing herds of cattle from their rightful owners at the Kwakwa Fulani settlement in Kebbi State as well as the Rijua Local Government of Niger State. The suspect, Malami Shehu, 22; Sani Shehu, 18; and Mohammed Chede, 21, all from the Rifi Kwakwa Fulani settlement, Kebbi State, were apprehended by police detectives attached to the Nasko Division following a tip-off. It was learnt that one Mohammed Bako of Kanbuwa, Kebbi State, had reported to the police that cattle rustlers invaded the Kambuwa Fulani settlement and forcefully took away 78 cows from his herd. Northern City News gathered in Minna on Sunday that the suspects had been making life unbearable for cattle owners in the two states until their arrest. It was further gathered that the suspects conspired and rustled cattle from the Maje, Libele, Danmaraya, Alambelu and Sabon Gari Ushe villages in the Magama Local Government Area of the state and sold some of the cows at the Kwao Market in the Kontagora Local Government Area of Niger State. In an interview with our correspondent, one of the suspects, Shehu, a native of Kebbi State, said, “I have been a farmer for over three years and have nothing to show for it. I cannot even take proper care of myself and as a result, I joined the gang of cattle thieves in my state. “I regret my action and I pray that my family will forgive me. I am ashamed of myself.” The command’s Public Relations Officer, Muhammad Abubakar, confirmed the incident, saying the suspects had confessed to the crime. Abubakar said the operatives recovered 78 cows from the suspects, adding that eight victims had identified some of their rustled cattle. He said the matter would be charged after investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com