Oladimeji Ramon and Daud Olatunji The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has declared that the All Progressives Congress remained the only political party currently existing in the state. The governor stated this on Tuesday during the formal declaration and presentation of the party’s flags to the defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party and the African Democratic Congress at the Ake Palace Ground, Abeokuta. Abiodun noted that members of different political parties had been defecting to the ruling party in the state, since he assumed office. He maintained that the APC had the grip of all the three senatorial districts of the state. He said, “The entire Ogun-West is represented here and we have the entirety of Ogun-West in the APC today.  We have the ADC, Ogun West Movement and we have the PDP. “Although, our national chairman is not here with us, but we are assuring you that Ogun State is solely APC, every other party in Ogun State is a counterfeit. “The APC is the only party that exists now in Ogun State.  It is obvious that there is no other party in Ogun State than the APC.” The governor also assured the defectors that political appointments and other entitlements would be extended to the new APC members. Abiodun said some appointments had been kept for the defectors even before their arrival into the party. He, however, warned defectors not to join the party through the backdoor. The governor maintained that anyone who wished to defect to the party must go through the appropriate channel. In his remarks, the governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress in the last election, Gboyega Isiaka, said his defection into the APC was as a result of Abiodun’s accommodating personality. Isiaka, a three-time governorship candidate in the state, noted that he defected with his loyalists in the ADC so as to key into the governor’s agenda. He said, “I have always maintained that once elections are over, governance must take the centre stage. “More importantly, and despite the winner-takes-all of our politics and system of government, the APC in Ogun State through His Excellency, indicated strong resolve to have an all-inclusive and open administration that is receptive of other ideas and competencies. “Alignments are not new in politics, though many of such have been plagued by deficit of clear ideological orientation and sincerity of purpose.” READ ALSO: Supreme Court rules on Tambuwal, Ganduje’s elections Monday The state chairman of the APC, Yemi Sanusi, said the door of the party was still open for more defectors. Some of the defectors apart from Isiaka included a two-term deputy governor in the state, Salmat Badru; Apostle Dave Salako, Joju Fadairo, Iyabo Apampa, Deko Onamusi, Ayo Odugbesan, John Obafemi and Pegba Otemolu. Others include Prof. Segun Awonusi, Aliu Ajibode and Kola Akinyemi. However, the South-West Zonal Organising Secretary of the PDP, Fasiu Bakenne, has called on members of the party in Ogun State not to panic over the mass defection of their notable colleagues to the ruling APC. In a statement on Tuesday, Bakenne asked Ogun PDP members not to be jittery, arguing that defection was not an uncommon phenomenon in politics and business. He said, “What is important is to be more steadfast with a strong resolve that our party, the PDP, performed creditably well while in government and shall soon return to power to better the lots of our people in Ogun State. “While we are not unmindful of pocket of crises, we must be convinced that the recent unification rally organised by Oladipupo Adebutu with various efforts and mobilisation embarked upon by leaders of thought and party structure at all levels, our genuine reconciliation and unity is nearer than before. “We should be proud of our party that all other parties are still envious of our past or present achievements, hence lobbying and attracting our members. “Our strength is in our steadfastness, the PDP remain unshaken.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com