Sola Shittu The Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party, Edo State chapter, Dan Orbih, on Saturday hit back at Osagie Ize-Iyamu and his group who left the PDP for the All Progressives Congress, saying their exit had left them in political poverty. Addressing a political rally at the residence of the late former Speaker of Edo House of Assembly, Mr Benson Alegbe, in Owan West Local Government Area, Orbih said those who left the PDP for the APC were left in confusion because they were not accepted in their new home. “I want to use this opportunity to clear some issues that I know are bothering you. Today, I can saintly say that those few people who left us for the APC are now in political poverty. They are not in hell, they are not in heaven, they are not in the PDP, they are not in the APC,” he said. He also faulted an alleged attempt by APC leaders in the state to dissociate themselves from the failures of the APC government, adding that the party should admit its failure. “They admitted that the APC government in Edo has failed but they now want to situate it on the personality of Governor Godwin Obaseki. Who brought Obaseki? It was Adams Oshiomhole. Can we separate Obaseki from Oshiomhole, no. So, it is clear that the APC in Edo has failed. In their failure they must admit and accept that their time is up,” he said. The PDP chairman also faulted the state agriculture project in Sobe, saying the multimillion-naira project is a complete failure without any product to show for it. READ ALSO: Nigerian among 176 victims of Ukranian plane crash But the factional Publicity Secretary of the APC (on the side of Obaseki), Mr Joseph Osagiede, said the PDP chairman had no moral right to criticize the state government because he was a man that could not win his ward. He said, “Orbih lacks the moral and political pedigree to even criticise any government because he has always had very poor outings in elections for the past eight years. “Particularly, as a politician, he has always lost his ward to the APC so let him go and face the crisis in his party. The PDP is sinking because of his maladministration so let him go and face that and leave the government alone.” Meanwhile, the Chairman of Edo North PDP Leaders’ Forum, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, urged the people of Owan West to eschew bitterness of the past and work together in unity. Dokpesi also canvassed that the post of the Deputy Governor be zoned to Edo North like APC did. He stated, “When Adams Oshiomole came, we said he was one of our sons. We struggled for him but they have always manipulated their way but in spite of that, we have always won and we will continue to win. “We are working hard to get senators and House of Representatives members for the party and we will succeed, especially in this election.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com