Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Welcome to the start of a brand new year and decade. I can faintly remember that during my teenage years there was this massive campaign of Vision 2020. Those pushing the campaign tried to sell to us the vision of a Nigeria that would be largely developed by 2020. Well, this is 2020! Can we really say that there are a lot of differences between Nigeria then and now? The ICT Clinic column (now in its seventh year) has over the years, centred on driving the Nigerian economy, through technological innovations, by empowering start-ups, as well as, advocate policy drives, in line with modern trends in technology and the intention is to continue in this tradition. Well, for the first edition of the year 2020, I will be publishing excerpts of some of the top contents published here last year alongside the impact or value to the growth of the innovation ecosystem and the development of technology in general. Retrogressive policies hurting cashless system Let me kick off with an interesting development that came up sometime in September 2019, the CBN introduced a N50 stamp duty for successful PoS transactions, with value starting from N1,000. In my ICT Clinic column of Sunday, November 24, 2019, titled “Retrogressive policies hurting cashless system”, I wrote the following: “What does this mean? This, in essence, means that the ground that we have covered in the drive towards getting the citizens to embrace the cashless policy may be reversed and it appears that we are now on a descent, taking huge steps backwards, thus, defeating the whole essence of what the government, through the CBN, sets out to achieve through the introduction of the cashless policy. “Let’s not forget that there is the challenge of certain individuals, who do not believe in keeping their funds in banks. They are not at home with the N50 bank charge on any transaction of N1,000 and above being imposed on the PoS transactions. They will rather transact their business using cash.” I concluded that piece by writing as follows: “The government, should not in one breath be advocating a cashless policy that aims at decreasing the volume of physical cash in the economy and at the same time discouraging the use of the PoS, which is an electronic form of transaction that is not cash-based. The government should, therefore, look elsewhere to generate more revenue to fund the national budget and put a permanent hold on charges on the PoS transactions, to encourage its use for faster adoption of the cashless policy and the desired financial inclusion of Nigerian citizens.” I was elated when I received the news of the reversal by the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, FCCPC on Tuesday December 24, 2019. This is a very smart move for a country that now has a minister of digital economy – it has to go beyond words and translate into real actions. Supporting homegrown solutions and start-ups In my ICT Clinic column of Sunday, January 13, 2019, titled; “Supporting homegrown solutions and start-ups”, I wrote on how Daniel Chinagozi, founder, Innovation Growth Hub, is making impact with technology and innovation in the cities of Aba and Onitsha. In that column, I wrote the following: “So, I asked him this question: ‘I can clearly see that you are bootstrapping. What would your impact have been, assuming you did not have to bother about a number of things?’ I got what you’d call a light ball response, as he looked excited and responded by saying, ‘the impact would have been amazing because, at the moment, we run our generator every day, just to keep the hub going. Also, data is expensive as it costs three times more to get the same amount of data you pay for in Lagos, here’. “He added that ‘the government should support us, particularly, with infrastructure or they can outsource certain technology services that we can provide for them, so we can earn some money that will help us sustain the hub.” It is instructive to know that there are many like him, trying to find solutions to our myriad of problems in Nigeria, but need help. The government can assist them by providing the needed infrastructure and patronise them through the local content policy. Lessons from the German Tech Ecosystem When I came back from an official task in Germany around June, 2019, I wrote a piece, titled: “Lessons from the German Tech Ecosystem”, in the ICT Clinic column of Sunday, June 30, 2019. The import of that piece was to replicate what Germany is doing to massively assist the players in its tech ecosystem, so, we can start having the same good results they are getting from taking up such initiatives, with government, providing incubation hubs and co-working space. “I recommend that the government should set up and increase support for hubs, rather than, trying to establish theirs. I believe that its agencies have no business running hubs in whatever shape or form. This is because somehow, it would most likely be run down or shut down when a new administration comes on board. Organisations such as Innovation Support Network and a few others can ensure that the government’s funding to hubs is channelled aright”, I concluded, in that piece. Today, a lot of support is still needed for the tech ecosystem, in Nigeria to thrive and grow, as well as innovate to solve our various challenges. Renewable energy: Panacea to Africa’s development challenge In the face of the ever rising cost and mostly, unavailability of electricity power, to run activities in the African ecosystem, I wrote a piece, on Sunday, July 21, 2019, titled: “Renewable energy: Panacea to Africa’s development challenge”, in which, I concluded as follows: “Investment in the long run in renewable solution is a proven way of an affordable and cost-effective energy source that would benefit the African continent, not just as an alternative source of energy, but also as a panacea for the economic challenges facing the African continent.” The Nigerian and other African countries should look in that direction to provide energy that can propel the needed growth in quantum on the continent. “Improving cybersecurity consciousness On Sunday, March 31, 2019, I wrote on the ICT Clinic column, a piece titled: “Improving cybersecurity consciousness”. In that piece, I concluded as follows: “Cybersecurity is a big deal and will greatly evolve in the years ahead. This is why I ed on all stakeholders to support organisations like CSEAN as they continue on the all-important journey of improving our cybersecurity consciousness.” As we step into another year in another decade, the issue of cybercrime will still be on the table and individuals and organisations should brace up by ensuring they implement tight cybersecurity measures to avoid being hacked. Our promise to all our esteemed readers is that we would continue in our tradition of supporting the growth of technology, digital economy, start-ups and pushing for the enactment of policies that can effectively support innovation. Welcome to the year 2020 and the beginning of another decade of immense possibilities for a country like Nigeria with huge potential. May our national eyes be opened to the opportunities and dangers ahead. Happy New Year! CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 