Samuel Awoyinfa The Cooperative Federation of Nigeria has described the border closure by the Federal Government as a blessing to the country. The President of the CFN, Chief Oriyomi Ayeola, said this in an interview with our correspondent. He also called for the creation of a separate Federal Ministry of Cooperative and special fund to boost cooperative activities in the country. On the border closure, Oriyomi, who is also the president of the Lagos State Cooperative Federation, said, “To us in the cooperative, the closure is a welcome development. We have taken advantage of it. The closure will create jobs for our people. More than 30 per cent of products in Nigeria are imported, making the issue of unemployment a huge problem. “The closure is a good thing for us in the cooperative movement in Lagos, because we have taken the advantage; we are already in partnership with some members of our federation in the North for massive production of rice. During the festive period, we brought in rice from Taraba and Benue states for our members; these are locally-produced rice. “Government should not just close the borders, it should give adequate assistance to rice farmers to get machines that will make the cultivation and production of rice easier.” Oriyomi described the contribution of cooperative societies to national growth as immense. He said, “In Lagos State, we have contributed about N200bn to the economy; it is a huge contribution to the economy of Lagos State. Cooperatives create wealth by making contributions to all the sectors:  hospitality, micro finance, building and real estate, and mortgage, among others.” He, however, observed that the cooperative movement in Nigeria still had much more to do, especially when compared with the accomplishments of cooperative bodies in other countries like Kenya and Tanzania. “We still have a lot to do. Comparing cooperative societies in Africa, we are not yet the best. Kenya and Tanzania in the eastern part of Africa are doing far better. Kenya’s cooperative movement, for a good number of times, contributed nothing less than 40 per cent to the country’s Gross Domestic Product; but in Nigeria, we cannot do more than 10 per cent.” He identified inadequate legislation as one of the factors preventing the cooperative body in Nigeria from achieving optimal performance. “In terms of regulation, we expect much from the government. Cooperative societies contribute immensely to the welfare of its members, neighbours and communities, thereby helping the government to take care of Nigerians. If government knows that we are assisting them to achieve their aims and objectives in terms of catering to the citizens, then it should do everything to encourage us.” He called on government at various levels to dedicate special funds to cooperative activities. “Government should pay more attention to the cooperative movement. Cooperative is a sector on its own; if the attention paid to industry and commerce is also paid to the cooperative sector, I assure you the system will contribute more than all other sectors, even the oil and gas, in Nigeria. “We therefore appeal to the Lagos State Government and the Federal Government to make dedicated funds available for effective running of cooperatives.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 