Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri The Peoples Democratic Party on Wednesday, warned  the immediate past governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, to desist from using the suspended chairmen of the 27 local government areas and their councillors to cause trouble in the state. The PDP, in a statement  by its Publicity Secretary in the state, Damian Opara, said no Supreme Court judgment  asked the suspended chairmen and councillors to resume duties. The party accused Okorocha, who now represents Imo West Senatorial District  in the Senate, of trying to use force to hijack the administration of Governor Emeka Ihedioha at the local government levels. Opara said, “The PDP in  Imo State for the avoidance of doubt, uses this medium to inform the entire Imo people and indeed, all well-meaning Nigerians that there was no valid Supreme Court order or injunction granting the Okorocha’s chairmen and councillors, the authority to return to the local government council areas either to complete their tenure of office or to do any other thing. “That the PDP government, under His Excellency, Emeka Ihedioha and his Deputy, His Excellency, Engr. Gerald Irona, will not have done otherwise if there is a legal pronouncement via any law suit instituted by the so-called chairmen and councillors by the Supreme Court of Nigeria, being a law- abiding government.” The party alleged that what the suspended chairmen and councillors were doing  was criminal. The statement read, “The PDP, Imo State chapter, uses this opportunity to inform the Imo people and our teaming supporters that the party will start a process of identifying all those disgruntled political leaders who survives by creating crisis and disrupting the peace of the state. “We advise all the purported chairmen and councillors that are bent on disrupting the peace of Imo State, to follow civilised manner to pursue their issues by following legal procedures.” APC demands justice for murdered Imo councillor Meanwhile, the Imo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has called for a probe into the killing of an ex-councillor in the Isu Local Government Area of the state on Monday. The Publicity Secretary of the party  in the state, Jones Onwuasoanya, said on Wednesday in Owerri, that the killing of the suspended councillor, Ahamefule Maduabuchi, who wanted to resume office, was unfortunate. The party called on the Inspector-General of police to direct  the state Commissioner of Police, to launch an investigation into the killing of the suspended councillor. He said, “The LGA elections which held in Imo State on the 25th of August, 2018 was conducted  in line with extant provisions of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as severally amended) and the Imo State Local Government Administration Law 15, 2000 ( also as amended). “That this election and all the processes preceding it are in tandem with democratic norms, free, fair and transparent. “That there were no legal or political impediments to the conduct of that election, and there has not been any Court order dissolving or suspending these duly elected LGA officials. “That the Supreme Court had reaffirmed the independence of this third tier of government in a case that was brought before it by some illegally sacked LGA officials in Ekiti State. “It is important to elucidate further here, that a Supreme Court judgment on issue of constitutionality is binding on all Nigerians and officials of government, as Supreme Court judgments are laws. “Therefore, the argument that the Supreme Court judgment only affects Ekiti State Government, is not only illogical, but also exposes a dangerous level of ignorance among the present operators of governance in Imo State and their consultants.” “That the party condemns in clear terms, the assassination of one of our members, Hon. Ahamefula Mmaduabuchi, who until his gruesome murder by suspected PDP thugs was a supervisory councillor in Isu LGA of the state.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 