Peter Dada, Akure As the negotiation between the Ondo State Government and the organised labour in the state resumed on Tuesday, the latter said both parties had reached 80 per cent agreement on the matter. The organised labour, however, said it would not enter into any agreement with the government that would lead to retrenchment of workers. The state Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Mr Sunday Adeleye-Oluwole, who spoke in Akure, the state capital, on Wednesday, confirmed that the negotiations over the new minimum wage which was hitherto suspended, had resumed. He also expressed assurance that the negotiation might be concluded before the end of this week. According to the labour leader, the delay in the minimum wage approval and implementation in Ondo State was caused by the insistence of the organised labour led by the Joint Negotiation Council, the NLC and the Trade Union Congress, to get better package for the workers and pensioners. The NLC chairman said the new salary template on minimum wage presented by the state government was being studied to ensure that the payment of the agreed new salaries was sustainable and would not lead to retrenchment. Adeleye-Oluwole, who explained that the new minimum wage would capture special allowances for the media, judiciary, parliamentary and health workers, appealed to the state workforce to exercise patience as the negotiation was at the final stage. He said, “The negotiation is not led by the NLC but is led by the JNC as prescribed by the national headquarters of the NLC and the Trade Union Congress. We are just supporting the JNC and that is what we have been doing and I want to say that in the last two months, the JNC in its wisdom set up the negotiation committee and ever since then we have met more than seven times. “So, the JNC has the final say concerning this minimum wage. But as at now, base on what happened on Tuesday, we have got to 85 per cent completion. Also, pensioners are being carried along because we believe that all of us will one day become pensioners. “From what I have been following, I can say that before this week runs out, we should be able to come out with specific table and we are working on five different tables for the judiciary, parliamentary, media workers, our counterpart in the health sector and workers in the civil service have their own peculiar allowances. So we are working now on five structures including pensioners making it six. “In the spirit of negotiation, what we really need is to know the data, how much is coming from Ondo State, which we have got and we also look at the present wage bill. “As labour leaders, we are not elected to sign what will lead to workers’ retrenchment. Last month, the office of the Accountant General was so frustrated that he called us and showed to us (all labour leaders) how they got money to pay the November 2019 salaries.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com