Sola Shittu, Benin Residents of Obaseki Street in the Oregbeni community, off the Benin-Agbor Road, Benin City, on Wednesday, called on the Edo State Governor, MrGodwin Obaseki, to come to their rescue before the next rainy season. In a save-our-soul message to the governor, the Secretary of the Obaseki Street Landlords’ Association, Mr Imasuen Bello, said gully erosion, which was now about 30 metres deep, started in the early 1990s and since then, they had been crying to the state government to come to their aid. “I came here in 1985 and the Obaseki Street was motorable then; it was through this street that trucks supplied us sand and gravel for the construction of our houses. But as time went by, the gully started developing and since then we have been crying out to the government. On our own, we tried to create gutters for waterways but they didn’t work,” he stated. Bello who took journalists round the erosion site, said the huge volume of rainwater flowing through the street was beyond what the landlords’ association could handle alone. According to him, the late Oba of Benin, Oba Erediauwa, once intervened by calling on Guinness Nigeria Plc, which has an office in the neighbourhood, to assist the community, but the effort did not yield any result. “We have written a series of letters and governor Obaseki had sent his men to inspect the area; they did the survey and the costing, but till now, nothing has been done about the situation. What we are saying is that the government should quickly come to our aid before the next rainy season. The erosion has washed away the road and some of our fence walls; it is a waiting disaster,” Bello said. Another resident, Joel Ereoah, said the community had written many letters to the state government on the gully erosion no concrete action had been taken to solve the problem. He stated, “We wrote a letter to former governor Lucky Igbinedion, and even last year, we wrote to the present governor of the state and we learnt that work had been approved on the road, but up till now, nothing has been done. “When we went back to the Ministry of Environment and Sustainability, the officials said our file was missing and that made us very sad. They said they couldn’t find the file after the governor’s approval. We didn’t see the approval with our eyes but they told us so.” Another resident of the street, Mr Inigiese Benson, said members of the community came together to see if they could control the erosion but only succeeded in stopping it from spreading further. “I observe that as settlers increase in the community, the waste waters from their buildings also increased in volume. Right from opposite the Western Boys High School, the force is enormous and that is what is responsible for the gully erosion,” he stated. He added that he personally wrote the Chairman of the Ikpoba Okhar Local Government Area on the erosion menace but he said it was beyond what the council could handle. Efforts to get the reaction of the state Ministry of Environment and Sustainability on it proved abortive as all the telephone lines called were not reachable. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 