Samson Folarin The Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutions and Associated Institutions has called for the suspension of the acting Director General of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi, Dr Chima Igwe, over the controversies surrounding his doctorate. This is just as an anti-corruption group, the Civil Society Network Against Corruption, has faulted the Ministry of Science and Technology for not taking appropriate action on the matter. The groups’ reactions followed reports by The PUNCH on the controversial doctorate of Igwe, which he claimed he bagged from the Universite’ Abomey-Calavi, Benin Republic, in 2001. With an attestation of registration, which he claimed was proof of his graduation; Igwe got several promotions and was recently appointed the acting director general of the agency. However, ultimatums given to him to produce his PhD certificate ended without any result, as Igwe went further to swear to an affidavit before an Abuja High Court. Investigations by our correspondent, however, revealed that the 57-year-old did not complete his studies as he claimed. Officials of the university, who spoke with PUNCH Metro, denounced his claims, saying Igwe had yet to do his thesis defence, the final requirement for the attainment of a PhD. The Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission, which had earlier cleared him of wrongdoing, backtracked on Tuesday, saying it had reopened investigation into the matter. The SSAUTHRIAI Chairman, FIIRO branch, Togunde Mumeen, expressed disappointment in the ICPC for initially clearing Igwe based on the information it claimed it got from a sister agency. Mumeen said it showed that the anti-graft agency did not conduct due diligence before clearing him. He stated, “That action of the ICPC really generated serious agitation among members of staff of the institute and the public, because this is an issue of integrity. The ICPC should equally redeem its image by being thorough in its investigation, leveraging on the report of September 4, 2018, of The PUNCH, else the union will call for the investigation of the investigator. “We want to inform the public that the union had earlier written to the institute’s board suggesting that it should commission the director of human resources to investigate the matter so as to unravel the true state of things, because the union’s image and the name of its leadership are at stake.” The union leader said after resumption from the New Year public holiday, members of the union would review the issue and decide the next line of action. He, however, noted that by the extant rule of the civil service, whenever an officer was under investigation, he ought to be suspended so that he would not use public funds to serve his own interest. The Chairman, Civil Society Network Against Corruption, Olanrewaju Suraj, welcomed the decision of the ICPC to reopen investigation into the case. He said there were established allegations of forgery, obtaining by false pretences, fraud and financial imprudence against Igwe. Suraj stated, “The complicity of the Ministry of Science and Technology in this whole saga and the earlier letter by the ICPC suggest conspiracy. The later does confirms internal conspiracy with the affirmation of reliance on a sister agency. READ ALSO: Expert laments high cost of treating kidney disease “But the ICPC is now expected to independently confirm evidence published by The PUNCH on this matter. Our organisation has since submitted a petition to the ICPC and we shall follow up on this matter.” Our correspondent was told that the Non-Academic Staff Union of FIIRO had also given Igwe an ultimatum to produce his PhD certificate. “There will be a showdown on January 17. How can you not have a certificate for 18 years and you get continuous undeserved promotion at the detriment of others? There are many people who have been stagnated because they did not have a PhD, which is a requirement for promotion in the institute. During our recent protest, we gave him a 21-day ultimatum to come out with his certificate,” an official of the union, who did not want to be identified, said. Nigerians on different social media platforms, who read the reports, also called for the prosecution of Igwe, and berated the Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, for being silent on the matter. On PUNCH Online, one Ikanke Frank, wrote, “The minister refused to act because Igwe is his brother. If a crook heads such a sensitive position, which good research will come out of there?” One Eish called for the sacking of the ICPC officials complicit in the earlier clearance of Igwe. “There is nowhere in the world that you write a report based on an unnamed sister institution’s report,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com