Ebenezer Bajela General Secretary of Nigeria Football Federation, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, has assured that the country is ready to host the 2020 African Women’s Cup of Nations, citing previous successes of the country in hosting major tournaments. Congo Brazzaville withdrew last year from hosting this year’s continental women’s event over the country’s lack of funds in June 2019, a decision which had left CAF in a precarious position as the federation despirately seeks another host for the tournament. However, NFF’s director of communications, Ademola Olajire, told BBC Sport last week that the federation had written to CAF indicating interest in hosting the event. “We’ve formally written to CAF about the interest to host the event,” he said. “We are working on the bidding documents and we should get it over to CAF soon. “This is the home of women’s football and the leading football nation in the continent,” Olajire added. “I believe it’s the right time to do it again. We’ve done it before and we believe it will be like bringing it home again.” Due to the short notice, there were concerns as to whether the country would be able to successfully host the event, but Sanusi told Saturday PUNCH that the country was more than ready. “The country has hosted many international competitions, and they were all successful. “For instance, we hosted the All African Games, the country also hosted Nigeria ’99, another competition was in 2009, and we’ve also hosted lots of major international tournaments, which we did very well. “I am confident that Nigeria can host any sports event. As it is done everywhere, when you want to host major tournaments like this, all you need to do is to upgrade your facilities and this applies to every hosting nation and we will do the same.” Meanwhile, CAF president, Ahmad Ahmad, told the French radio station, RFI, that Equatorial Guinea were also interested in hosting the event. Nigeria had previously hosted the tounrnament on three occasions – 1998, 2002 and 2006. Five other nations have hosted the event since it switched to a tournament format in 1998: South Africa has hosted the same number of times with Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea (twice), while Namibia, Cameroon and Ghana have all staged it once. Nigeria’s women are the most successful national team in African football history with 11 titles and are the only African team to have played in all eight of the Women’s World Cup tournaments since 1991 but, they have failed to translate their continental dominance on the world stage. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  