 Being regarded as a market leader in a highly competitive industry as Insurance is earned rather than conferred. This has been further emphasized by different comprehensive analyses revealing industry ratio in claims payment over the years and how Leadway Auto Insurance currently dominates the market. We have dutifully settled claims from all the products we offer since the inception of the company, giving customers value for every premium they pay.At Leadway Assurance our core values form the foundation upon which everything we do is built. Excellent customer-centred service hinged on integrity and mutual respect have consistently influenced who we are, what we do and how we operate. In our 50 years of operation, we have upheld our vision to be a leading insurance company and non-banking financial solutions provider in Nigeria. As Divisional Director and Head of General Business Retail, South, I can confidently say that blazing the trail in customer relations and service satisfaction is all we strive for. Take Auto Insurance, for instance, the Nigerian Insurance Association’s (NIA) industry report, Insurance Digest, reported that “Leadway’s ratio of gross claims paid to gross premium written of Motor Business as of 2018 was a total sum o f N2,136,250 to N3,455,087 “, respectively. This was adjudged the highest paying claims in the entire industry for the year under review. Whereas, Leadway was second in gross premium income for the Auto Insurance product segment, we emerged industry highest in terms of claims payment. This is a firm demonstration of our commitment to making our customers happy, satisfied and fulfilled in the face of unpleasant events. So, it goes without saying that Leadway always gives its insured customers value for money, knowing and trusting that should the worse occur, they are assured prompt response, succour and rebound. As a result, it is no magic that our customer base continues to grow under this policy as well as others. Leadway pays more than the industry average for every Naira paid in premium by our customers, who can attest to our prompt engagement process. “Being regarded as a market leader in a highly competitive industry as Insurance is earned rather than conferred. This has been further emphasized by different comprehensive analyses revealing industry ratio in claims payment over the years and how Leadway Auto Insurance currently dominates the Market” When you consider the spate of road accidents in Nigeria, you would understand the increasing need for insured customers to get compensation for the loss suffered in the course of chasing their dreams. Statistics from the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) shows an increase in vehicular accidents with 9,698 incidents in 2019, some of which led to mortality. Thousands of Nigerians involved in these ordeals would have suffered great loss because they do not have an insurance policy like Leadway Auto Plan. In addition to the compensations of LAP, our beneficiaries also got their accident vehicles towed for repairs at no cost to them. Those who sustained injuries received medical expenses. Imagine the number of motorists that are in a much better place, emotionally, physically, mentally, and financially after going through such a devastating experience and having our LAP stepping in to provide relief. According to Warren Buffet, “price is what you pay, value is what you get”. For us, assuring the happiness of our customers is our definition of intrinsic value creation. So, when considering the factors for choosing an insurance company; from legal accreditation, reputation, financial strength, coverage, price factor, you can
trust Leadway to always exceed your expectations. We have done this for half a century, and we hope to continue for the next 50 years and more. For more on how you can engage us for your insurance needs, please call us on 08088578050 or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for more details.