Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Government has approved the movement of about 300 persons displaced from their homes following Sunday’s petroleum product pipeline explosion at the Ile-Epo area to the Igando Relief Camp. This followed the approval by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of the request of the Chairman of the Agbado Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area, Dr Adeoye Arogundade, who sought assistance for the displaced persons. Confirming the development, the Public Affairs Officer, LASEMA, Nosa Okunbor, stated that an officer had been appointed to oversee the affairs of the displaced persons at the camp. He said, “The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in view of the disaster resulting from the pipeline vandalism, has granted the request of the Chairman of the Agbado Oke-Odo LCDA, Dr Adeoye Arogundade, and has directed that the Igando Relief Camp of LASEMA be opened to about 300 Internally Displaced Persons/victims with immediate effect. “In the same vein, Mr Olukolade Olatunbosun has been appointed as the Head of Special Duties and Camp Commandant of the LASEMA Relief Camp to oversee the welfare of the 300 Internally Displaced Persons from the Abule-Egba/Ile-Epo pipeline explosion. He resumes duty with immediate effect.” PUNCH Metro had reported that the pipeline belonging to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation was on Sunday ruptured by vandals, which led to an explosion. The explosion, which occurred around 8.30pm, left five persons dead, while 11 buildings, 17 shops and 36 vehicles, including 33 trucks, were consumed by the accompanying inferno. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps has warned residents of the state against running across highways as its officials are ready to arrest errant persons. The Corps Marshal of the agency, Gbemisola Akinpelu, who emphasised the dangers of running across the highways, noted that the agency was ready to ensure total compliance with the rules on road crossing and the use of pedestrian bridges with the prosecution of offenders. Akinpelu noted that the agency had pegged the distance of arrest of residents, who wished to endanger their lives by dashing across the highways, at 200 metres from pedestrian bridges. She stated, “As part of our efforts to ensure the free flow of vehicular movement in the state, which is mostly hindered as a result of pedestrians crossing major highways where bridges are erected for usage, the LAGESC has stepped up its operation to arrest the defiant crossing the highways indiscriminately. “Crossing of highways impedes the free flow of traffic and causes the unnecessary loss of lives as a result of hit-and-run motorists. As the Lagos State Government is interested in ensuring that the citizens do not endanger their lives by crossing the highways, we advise them to resort to the use of pedestrian bridges, as the LAGESC operatives are charged to intensify efforts at deterring defaulters.” According to her, 36 people have been arrested during enforcement carried out by the agency in various parts of the state and are set for prosecution. She added that the Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Tunji Bello, had approved the establishment of additional divisional offices for the corps towards ensuring the adequate coverage of the state, noting that the offices would be strategically positioned to achieve zero tolerance for all environmental and traffic offences in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com