Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki A Fulani herdsman, Laulo Isa, 20, has confessed to raping a 54-year-old woman, Mrs Mary Okereke, to death. Isa said alcohol and anger pushed him into committing the crime in the Ugwulangwu community, Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State on December 28, 2019. The suspect made the confession after he was paraded by the state police command in Abakaliki on Tuesday. According to him, the woman insulted him, which led to a struggle between them before he overpowered her and raped her. The herdsman added that he was not in the right frame of mind when he committed the act, saying, “I highly regret my action.” He stated, “I am Laulo Isa. I am from Nassarawa State. I came to work here in Ebonyi. I was seriously drunk and saw a woman in the night walking alone on the road. I approached her for sex and she started abusing me. “We started abusing each other and I immediately pounced on her and she started struggling with me to set herself free. I was seriously drunk that time. As I was on her, a man who was passing by flashed his torchlight on me and I ran away. “I don’t know whether I was having sex with her but she was on the ground under me. I did not hit her with any object, but is like I had one round of sex with her. We were both on the ground when a man flashed light on me and I ran away. “I am not happy with what I did and I want to die. I just want to die. I have never done this type of thing since God created me. I am begging for forgiveness.” It was gathered that the victim was returning from the farm when the herdsman accosted her, dragged her into a nearby bush and raped her to death. While raping the woman, a passerby, flashed his torchlight on him and he ran away. The state Commissioner of Police, Awotunde Awosola, while briefing journalists on the incident, said the suspect would be prosecuted for the crime. The CP stated, “On December 28, 2019, around 8pm, one Laulo Isa, a herdsman, 20, accosted and waylaid a 54-year-old woman, Mary Okereke, on the Ufuezeraku Ugwulangwu Road in the Ohaozara Local Government Area. “There was a struggle between the two of them, but he overpowered the woman and had carnal knowledge of her. Unfortunately, the woman died during the incident.” READ ALSO: Herdsman defiles six-year-old girl in Osun The police boss said his team, with the assistance of the youth in the community, combed the forest and farmlands in the area in search of the suspect. He added, “Through the concerted efforts of the DPO in the Ohaozara Local Government Area and the assistance of the youth in the community, they began a search for the suspect, who unfortunately left his cap and pair of slippers in a bid to escape from that scene. “So, with the assistance of two other Fulani men, we were able to identify him through the cap and pair of slippers and he was subsequently arrested and he is now with us and he is going to face the full weight of the law.” The CP noted that the remains of the woman had been deposited in the hospital for autopsy. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 