Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The convener of Ajoro Ekiti, Mr Dare Ariyo-Atoye, said on Sunday that the Southwest security outfit, code-named ‘Operation Amotekun’, billed to take off on Thursday must not be abused or used to settle scores. Ariyo-Atoye, who spoke in Ado Ekiti during the launch of Ajoro Ekiti, a socio-development and pressure group, said the responsibilities of the security outfit must be well-defined, adding that it must not be partisan. “The responsibilities of the security outfit must be well-spelt out. Amotekun must not be abused or misused like the ethnic militia groups which are being used to settle scores. It must be a security outfit keeping vigil on our bushes and borders and it should not involve in private matter or politics”, he said. Ariyo-Atoye also said use of modern technology and innovations in surveillance and operations would enhance the achievement of the security outfit and attainment of its goals of combating the rising scourges of kidnapping, robbery and other crimes in six southwest states. READ ALSO: Pick your successor, Bakare urges Buhari “In today’s world, drones are deployed for surveillance and if this gadget or other security information generating platforms are not deployed to survey our bushes to actually complement the operatives’ efforts, it may record low achievement,” he opined. Ariyo-Atoye urged Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, to step up efforts for enhancement of security of the state and as well ensure that no portion of Ekiti was forcibly taken by any group or other ethnic nationality. He advised that the governor could boost security in the State by assisting the police with five patrol vans per council in addition to encouragement for personnel, saying, “We have committed policemen and women who can secure our land with necessary security gadgets and encouragement. Ekiti deserves the best and our people must be secured. “The state government should not just make hasty conclusion that the Orin Ekiti issue was a rumour or an issue blown out of proportion. But let me give assurances that nobody will be allowed to take Ekiti land. Either now or in future, any land hijacked from Ekiti people shall be recovered,” he said. Furthermore, the group urged the governor to increase the level of infrastructural development in the State and as well encourage farmers to venture into bush meat rearing in commercial quantity for more productivity in agriculture and other exceptional innovations for employment generation.