Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Residents of the Isheri estate have urged the Lagos and Ogun state governments to construct proper drainage channels in the areas to prevent flooding of the community. The residents, who accused the two governments of allocating land to buyers without making provision for how water would be channelled away from the community, said the states would not be able to resettle the people, who had built houses in the area if displaced by flood. The representative of the Isheri Estates Community Association, Mr Abayomi Akinde, said in a statement that the property owners were ready to cooperate if the state governments would involve stakeholders, who understood the problem of the community. Akinde added that the poor management of the Oyan Dam had contributed to the flooding of the community. He stated, “The residents of the Isheri estates were not complaining of flooding in the past, because the flood occurred less frequently before the construction of the Oyan Dam and the historical facts that the dam, whose functions include flood control, has contributed significantly to flooding over the years due to its poor management. “The late pioneer managing director of the dam had accused the Lagos State Government of failing to pay for processing the water released from the dam when he was in charge of the dam years back. He, however, said despite this, the dam continued to release water in the interest of the people. “We want to urge the present management of the dam to take a cue from this and release water for processing when needed and stop flooding the environment with water during the rainy season as was the case in the past, and we also urge the management to up its game as the management model employed 40 years ago will no longer work in this time and age due to obvious reasons of growth and development that have taken place in both Lagos and Ogun states over the years. “Any suggestion that people should give up their houses is in bad taste and an obvious sign of lack of compassion for the people, who innocently bought into government schemes and invest all of their lives’ savings to build homes without knowing the danger they face and besides, such a suggestion will strengthen the hands of the people managing the dam to continue their irresponsible behaviour.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com