Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Ogun State Sector Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps, on Wednesday, confirmed the death of one person in a crash around the J3 area of the Sagamu/Ijebu-Ode/Ore Expressway. PUNCH Metro learnt that the lone accident occurred around 11.25pm on Tuesday and involved a Toyota Sienna with number plate FKJ 453 XW. It was gathered that the vehicle was on top speed when it suffered a tyre blowout, which made the driver to lose control of the vehicle, and it eventually somersaulted into the bush. Our correspondent learnt that nine persons were involved in the accident, with three of them sustaining injuries. The FRSC said the remains of the deceased were deposited in the morgue of the General Hospital, Ijebu-Ode, while two of the survivors were receiving treatment at the same hospital and a young female survivor was rushed to a private hospital in the area. Similarly, two male adults, who were on a motorcycle, were injured after a hit-and-run driver rammed them on the Idiroko-Atan Road around Ilase. It was gathered that the victims were rushed to the Idiroko General Hospital. Similarly, tragedy was averted on Wednesday when two vehicles rammed into each other around the Mountain Top University area of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. It was gathered that the vehicles were a white Mazda bus with number plate BD 235 JJN and a Sport Utility Vehicle with number plate SMK 871 AH PUNCH Metro learnt that the accident was caused by excessive speed that led to loss of control on the part of the drivers. It was learnt that the crash, which involved 24 persons, left nine injured, who were rushed to the Divine Trust Hospital, Ibafo. Confirming the crashes, the Sector Commander, FRSC, Clement Oladele, told our correspondent that the young survivor of the J3 accident, who was rushed to a private hospital, had been referred to the State Hospital, Ijebu-Ode. Oladele urged motorists to exhibit great care while driving and avoid using the Yuletide as an excuse to drive under the influence of drugs and alcohol as the consequences could be catastrophic. He added that motorists needed to drive with absolute concentration and be careful, especially around road construction zones. Oladele stated, “As a follow-up exercise carried out by operatives of the Ogbere outpost, in line with the World Health Organisation’s standard practice on the wellbeing of the injured child reportedly taken to the Ise Oluwa Clinic for immediate medical treatment by by-standers, report by the hospital management revealed that the case of the child was beyond what it could handle, hence the need for the child to be immediately relocated to another hospital. “The injured child was thereafter withdrawn and transferred to the State Hospital, Ijebu-Ode, for adequate treatment, while the remains of the mother, who died in the crash, were deposited in the morgue of the same hospital.” He also confirmed an assault on some officers of the corps around Ajilete, Idiroko, on Tuesday. Oladele noted that the officers in the Idiroko area were assaulted by a motorcyclist, who was apprehended for not wearing a helmet. According to him, the motorcyclist attempted to regain his seized motorcycle and injured an officer in the jaw in the process. It was gathered that the motorcyclist was handed over to the police at the Idiroko Police Station. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com