Tony Okafor,Awka Tension is building up in the South-East over alleged plan by the Enugu Electricity Distribution Company to discard prepaid metering and reintroduce estimated billing. On Monday scores of protesters to the development took to the streets of Omagba in Onitsha condemning the act.
They vowed to resist the development with the last drop of their blood. They called on the Federal Government to intervene and save them from the stranglehold of a certain moneybag who they accused of ripping off the people of the area through the EEDC. One of the protesters who gave his name as Anayochukwu told our correspondent, “I went to their office to see what was going on. I discovered that they had created a desk with a worker who is attending to customers, trying to convince them to go into direct connection (estimated). They refused me to recharge my prepaid. “The gullible and impatient ones are falling for them. I engaged the worker to find out when, if I fill the form for direct connection, the new meter will be supplied to me. The man said he had no idea. “True to our fears, it could take months or years. That’s why we decided to protest.” Journalists of South East Extraction under the aegis of Izunwanne had also in a similar protest warned the EEDC to desist from reintroducing estimated billing by decommissioning active prepaid meters to customers. They insisted that the explanation by the distribution company that only 40,000 customers were affected by their scheme was not permissible as withdrawal of functional meters ought to be by replacing them with the preferred option by the company instead of putting affected customers on estimated billing which made them pay for power not used. A statement by its leader, Abuchi Anueyiagu and Secretary, Ngwoke Ngwoke said the scheme by the power company was furthering the poor services of the company and their exploitation of people of the region which was unacceptable to them. The group’s statement read in part, “We are aware of the poor power supply and distribution situation in the South-East geopolitical zone. “That we have observed with dismay, the untold hardship electricity consumers in the South-East zone are subjected to. “That such hardship has been further aggravated by the sudden decision of Enugu Electricity Distribution Company to discontinue the use of standalone prepaid meters in the zone and by this decision, EEDC is forcing millions of public electricity consumers using prepaid meters to fill prescribed forms by which they purportedly empower EEDC marketers to return to the wicked and outrageous estimated billing method of collecting revenue, which had long been rejected because of its inherent arbitrariness and exploitation of the consumers. “That even though the estimated billing method, according to EEDC, will only be in place until the MAP meters are available, we find it difficult to believe the EEDC on this because we are aware that thousands of customers who applied for the MAP meters over two years now are yet to be supplied with any unit of the device and besides the tactical delay, which we know the supply of the new meters will suffer. “W are uncomfortable with the fact that when it is finally available, public electricity consumers in the South-East zone will be made to pay a whopping N39,000 for a unit of the so-called new smart meters. “We have it on good authority that there is nothing wrong with the standalone meters, except that EEDC decided to discontinue its use in order to make more profits. “The meter crisis by EEDC is compounding an already debilitating perennial energy crisis which EEDC has inflicted on consumers in the South-East zone due its inefficiency and incompetence,” The group said. 