Anna Okon The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria has advised the Federal Government to privatise the nation’s four ailing refineries using the 49/51 per cent government/private investor model adopted for the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas. The President, PENGASSAN, Ndukaku Ohaeri, gave the advice in Lagos on Friday while fielding questions on the developments in the oil and gas industry and other national issues. The NLNG, backed by the NLNG Act, is owned by four shareholders, namely, the Federal Government of Nigeria, represented by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (49 per cent); Shell (25.6 per cent); Total Gaz Electricite Holdings, France (15 per cent), and Eni (10.4 per cent). Ohaeri maintained that the model was a huge success and if the Federal Government had intention of reviving the refineries, it needed to replicate that model in the industry. He said, “The shareholders at the NLNG are private entities who are in business, Therefore, there is a high level of responsibility among the staff members. “You will not see any of them neglecting their duties because they are acquainted with one big man somewhere.” He also made reference to the Eleme Petrochemical Company Limited that was sold to a Chinese firm, Indorama in 2006, saying that the company, after the sale, had also become a successful private enterprise that had kept on expanding. The PENGASSAN president also addressed the issue of insecurity as it affects members of the association. He said while the government had been successful in tackling terrorism, kidnappers, cultists and robbers still posed a threat to the peace of the society. According to him, these vices stem from the high unemployment rate in the country, adding that if people are gainfully employed, there will be no need to engage in crime. He said PENGASSAN “is an association and a critical stakeholder that fought for the enthronement of the democracy that we have. We stand for the progress of the nation.” Addressing the subject of the cost of governance, the PENGASSAN president said with over 200 ministries, departments and agencies, governors, senators and representatives, local government councilors and others, Nigeria had no business ranking low on the global  development index. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com