BOLA BAMIGBOLA The corpse of a Lagos State University student, Favour Daley-Oladele, murdered by her lover, Owolabi Adeeko and a pastor, Segun Philip, in Ikoyi-Ile, Osun State, was on Saturday exhumed by homicide detectives from the state police command. The state Commissioner of Police, Babatunde Kokumo, who led the team that exhumed the corpse, said the move would enable the police to conclude investigation into the case. While responding to questions from newsmen, Philip, said he killed the deceased to experiment what he read in ‘Seven Book of Moses.’ Philip, who was led around the scene of the crime alongside other two suspects, Adeeko, and his mother, said it was his first time of killing human being. He added that the late Daley-Oladele was thrown into a half-dug well, where she was dismembered and some organs removed before she was buried. Addressing newsmen at the scene of the crime, Kokumo, assured residents, who expressed concern over the incident and rained curses on the perpetrators of the crime, that all churches in the neighbourhood would be investigated. The CP said, “We are all aware of the gruesome killing of a LASU student. The killing has been traced to Ikoyi-Ile. In furtherance of the investigation started by the Ogun State Command, we have brought our homicide experts to exhume and continue investigation with a view to prosecuting the suspects. “It is a gruesome murder and the whole thing is quite horrible. We will not fold our arms and watch lawless citizens take the law into their own hands. We have been informed that we have a number of churches in this community. It is our responsibility to conduct our investigation. What we are doing is intelligence policing driven by the people’s need. “If the people say they are no longer comfortable with the number of churches in the community or the people running the churches, then it becomes our responsibility to conduct investigation on their activities and check them.” Kokumo enjoined parents to properly train their children and counsel them on the peer group they keep. “Parents have a lot of roles to play.  We have children in schools; the parents owe them the responsibility to make them know that apart from their academic pursuit, they must see to their moral training,” he added. Meanwhile, Olukoyi of Ikoyi, Osun State, Oba Yisau Otunla, has condemned the killing in his domain. Olukoyi, in a press release obtained by our correspondent, said, “We dissociate ourselves from the incident completely as it is never in the attitude and character of the community to harbour evil and evil doers. All the suspects are not indigenes of Ikoyi land. “Ikoyi-Ile has no history or record of hostility and the residents of the community are known for peace, tranquility, love, hard work and hospitality. The community will not allow some unscrupulous elements to tarnish the age-long reputation of the town. “The entire Ikoyi-Ile community wants police to conduct thorough investigation into the mystery and circumstances surrounding the ugly incident and bring the perpetrators, Bola Adeeko and her son, Owolabi together with the church cleric, Segun Philip, to book.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 