In this interview with IFEANYI ONUBA, the Acting Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary Uduk, speaks on developments in the capital market and what the commission is doing to boost investors’ confidence The 2019 fiscal period has just ended, what are some of the things that Securities and Exchange Commission did to address some of the key issues in the market place? Last year was good year for the SEC. A lot of people like to refer to the negative returns in the equities market but we think that does not define the year. We have made a lot of effort towards resolving the unclaimed dividends problems. We have finally come out with the rules around derivatives market which we believe will deepen our market and make more securities products available for trading on our market. We have also brought out a few more rules on Central Counter Party and also supporting the derivatives market and then rules around collective investment scheme so that we make them better to be able to attract more investors. It’s been an eventful year and we are happy with what we had done within the year and we look forward to a better 2020. What are your expectations and outlook for Nigerian capital market in 2020? The future of the Nigerian capital market is related to the outlook on the general economy. Various estimates of economic growth indicate the Nigerian economy should grow by about 2.9 per cent to 3.7 per cent in 2019. We also expect positive growth in 2020 as the economy improves. Furthermore, the Federal government presented the 2020 Federal Budget Proposal, which is a landmark compared to previous budgets. The budget is expected to sustain growth and affect the capital market positively. As you are aware, the Capital Market Masterplan (2015-2025) guides the policy decisions of the commission and we expect to further consolidate on the gains of implementing some of our initiatives. Specifically, we expect to ensure the market operates more effectively and rules and regulations are prompt in protecting investors. The market is faced with the challenge around collection of stamp duties between the Federal Inland Revenue Service and the Nigerian Poster Services  and the inclusion of Value Added Tax on equities transactions. How can these burdens on investors be reduced? We understand that government needs to collect tax to function effectively and provide the necessary infrastructure and friendly environment for businesses to thrive. However, it is also important to have clarity in taxation regimes while using tax as an incentive for citizens to go into certain activities, such as investment. We have engaged the relevant authorities on the Stamp Duties and VAT you mentioned. They are currently being addressed and the final resolutions will be announced as soon as they are reached. From January to date, to what extent have some of the initiatives that were implemented been able to achieve their intended objectives? We have gone very far in solving the unclaimed dividends problem. That is a big milestone for us. We have engaged Nigeria Interbank Settlement System to make use of the Bank Verification Number and we have got Central Securities Clearing System and the registrars working towards reducing it and there has been a marked reduction. More importantly, we know that there will be no future unclaimed dividends. There will be no addition to the unclaimed dividend profile and we count that as a success. We believe that once we solve the identity issues that we have presently, the problem of unclaimed dividends will be a thing of the past. Also, we have continued with our education of the market. We are making more efforts towards awareness on what stakeholders need to know to make the market more attractive, make it better and protect the investors more. What is the level of implementation of the the Nigerian Capital Market Masterplan? It’s a 10-year programme and so what we do each year is to select a few things to work on. This year, one of the things we took was the e-dividend issue and resolving the unclaimed dividend problems as well as regularisation of multiple accounts. On all counts we have made a lot of strides. Next year, we are picking a few other things like derivatives trading and strengthening the CIS segment of the market. There are other issues like electronic filing and multiple accounts. Do you think the SEC has made any impact on regularisation of multiple accounts? The issues around multiple subscription is still on. We have given some time for those affected to regularise their accounts. The stockbrokers and registrars are working on that and we believe that in no time, we will identify the owners of those accounts and put them together so that those shares will become tradable again. On e-filing, we are in the process of deploying the software that will help with that. That will make filing more efficient, make it easier for capital market operators to send in returns to us. On dividends, there are no dividend warrants and we do not encourage dividend warrants and that is why we are urging investors to register for e-dividend. What that means is that when dividends are paid, investors no longer have to wait for warrants by post as these dividends are paid directly into their accounts. That is why we are saying that going forward, accounts without full details, that have not been updated will no longer be allowed to trade. This is because we do not want the legacy issues to continue. We don’t want unclaimed dividends to keep growing. We want it to be such that when dividends are paid, investors get it directly to their bank accounts. In the area of Ponzi schemes, what has SEC done so far to ensure that unsuspecting Nigerians are not defrauded of their money? The problem of Ponzi schemes continued last year and unfortunately, Nigerians still invested in the scams. We identified and closed a lot of them. We thank the police, the EFCC and all the authorities that cooperated with us in closing these schemes. They still remain attractive and that is why we are intensifying efforts to educate the public. They are just there to defraud Nigerians and that is why we keep enlightening the public. We will close them down and their promoters will be made to face the law. The SEC will continue to work to protect investors and also to ensure these schemes do not see the light of the day and even when they do, they are closed down quickly. Why are people still patronising Ponzi schemes despite series of warnings by the commission? Ponzi schemes thrive all over the world. it is not a Nigerian problem. They tap into human greed coupled with the current economic situation. People see them as a way they can easily get out of poverty. It can also be as a result of not being aware of what investments options are out there. That is why the SEC and the entire capital market community have intensified efforts at investment education. People need to know that it’s easy to open a money market account, a mutual fund account, get stocks and things like that. We want the market to be easier, more accessible and we also want to have more products. We want a deeper market and we believe that with these combinations, we will reduce the number of Ponzi schemes coming up and reduce the number of investors putting their money into Ponzi schemes. Market operations are beginning to embrace Fintech as enabler as against being a disruptor, but there are strong concerns in the areas of regulations and investor protection. How is SEC looking at these issues? Fintech is a combination of finance and technology and the world is fast in recognising and accepting the role of technology in the financial sector. One of the major reasons for the acceptance of technology in the financial sector is that it makes things very easy to access and also to achieve. Fintech has come to stay and the sooner we acknowledge and accept it the better for everyone. SEC constituted a market-wide fintech road map committee because we have realised that we live in a technologically driven era, and it is only important that the commission embraces this trend and create an enabling environment for technology to positively impact on our market. We support fintech by engaging and guiding fintech start-ups that seek to operate in the Nigeria capital market. Specifically, we are looking into the area of crowdfunding, crypto assets,  and distribution of collective investment schemes through fintechs. We need to be able to balance our objective of protecting investors and encouraging innovation and development in the market. Dedicated units have also be set up within the commission to handle fintech. The commission introduced new set of rules on derivatives trading. Tell us more about this investment instrument? Derivatives are securities that derive their value from an underlying security or event and these have been lacking in our markets over the years. Derivatives are traded in all the big markets around the world. They are used to hedge the trade in other securities. We believe that this is a good time to have derivatives in our market. They are currently being traded in our markets but they are traded over the counter. Now we want to introduce exchange traded derivatives so that people can now hedge their positions in the market. The number one advantage apart from the risk management is that it gives traders and investors more instruments to invest in. The risks in derivatives trading are a bit higher than the underlying assets. What are some of the rules being rolled out to check these? For the exchange traded derivatives, we have put in place a very robust risk management framework and that is why we brought these rules out. These rules cover in addition to the registration requirements, the derivatives contracts themselves and also the participants in the derivatives market. They also specify the risk management framework that the SEC expects that every participant in the derivatives market would have. When I say every participant I mean the exchanges, the central counterparties and even the dealing members themselves. We also expect that the exchanges make rules around what kind of investors can invest in derivatives and what kind cannot. We are watching from every part of it and also learnt from countries that have done this for 40 to 50 years. So we are not re-inventing the wheel. We have also learnt from mistakes that these countries made and I can assure you that we are taking every necessary step to ensure that this market is safe. We believe that this is the time to have derivatives in the market and we believe that we can introduce them in a way and manner that is beneficial to the entire market. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 