As the year 2020 begins, experts across the different sectors of the economy tell TUNDE AJAJA the things government could do differently for the nation to get better this year HEALTH: President, Nigerian Medical Association, Dr Francis Faduyile Since the budget for health is low this year, and given that budgeting does not necessarily mean availability of total allocated funds, the government should try and release appreciable percentage, if not all. And we should judiciously use those funds when released. Also, the government needs to put a lot of policies in place, especially how to prevent and treat some diseases, like cancer and vaccination against Human papillomavirus. The Primary Healthcare Centres should also be made to work effectively. PHCs are not within the purview of the Federal Government, thus, the media should let the governors know they need to revamp them because that is where we need to get up to 70 per cent of Nigerians to access health. It is at that level that they do health education, immunisation, antenatal care, etc. Yet, all these are largely not on the ground. Beyond these, government, both state and federal, need to employ more staff. Many doctors have left and government has refused to employ more staff, leaving the few in the system overworked and frustrated, whereas a lot of medical personnel are roaming the streets looking for jobs. We also need the government to ensure that the National Health Insurance Scheme is properly run so that we can have a lot of Nigerians not depending on out-of-pocket expenditure for health. This would help in getting this universal health coverage for Nigerians. ECONOMY: Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Dr Muda Yusuf Government should undertake urgent reforms of the oil and gas sector to unlock the huge potential in job creation, investment, revenue and forex earnings. Reform will also reduce the corruption and leakages in the sector. The Petroleum Industry Bill promised by the President should be expeditiously presented for consideration by the National Assembly. This reform should be given utmost priority. Also, the Nigerian ports are a nightmare for most investors and the cost of cargo clearing is prohibitive, while the processes are too vulnerable to corruption. Government should fix the problems, including infrastructure, equipment and inefficient cargo processing. In addition, the government obviously does not have the financial capacity to fix the nation’s infrastructure, we need to see urgent measures to attract private capital into infrastructure financing to address the huge deficit. The regulatory environment needs to be more investment friendly and the drive for revenue needs to be more strategic so as not to hurt investment. They also need to demonstrate greater commitment to the promotion of true federalism in order to unlock the huge economic potentials at the sub-national levels. There is need to also promote an urgent review and restructuring of the power sector. Current structure has not served the interest of economic development. The Central Bank of Nigeria needs to undertake periodic impact assessment of its policies on the economy, the investment environment and the welfare of the people. Such measures would enrich the quality of its policies. There is also need to ensure effective implementation of Presidential Executive orders. Education: Prof Funso Falade If we must move from where we are to the next level, there is no way the government can continue to pay lip service to education. We can’t continue like this. In any nation, education is a serious matter. Even though we have always highlighted these issues, across all the levels of education; primary, secondary and tertiary, is there any one that is well funded? Over the years, we have been discussing this issue, but here we are. It’s about funding, and when you don’t have that funding what can people do. If you go to public universities, what do you have, in the area of facilities and equipment? The same thing is obtainable in secondary schools. Many of the people at the helm of affairs know what it’s like in other countries but they are not replicating that standard here. The important thing is that government needs to do the needful. Education is the bedrock of development and when we don’t develop that sector as a nation, we are obviously not going anywhere. My view is that government should do the needful, fund education at all levels, supply equipment and facilities where required. It’s very disturbing. Go to other countries, they are talking about fourth industrial revolution globally now where sophisticated equipment is in use, but if you go to our university what do you find. We have to appeal to the government to do the needful. FOREIGN AFFAIRS: Former Director-General, Nigerian Institute of International Affairs, Prof Bola Akinterinwa One of the issues Nigeria faced last year was xenophobic attacks on its nationals in South Africa. The only way it can be prevented on a permanent basis is if the government of Nigeria ensures that its South African counterpart changes the perception of its people. When that is done, then, we can expect at least a change in attitude. The second way is the introduction of the rule of reciprocity in all our agreements. In our diplomatic relations as a whole, Nigeria’s foreign policy must not be simply reactive; it must be proactive. If you look at Section 2 of the constitution, under foreign policy objective, it is stated that one of Nigeria’s foreign policy objective would be to respect international treaties. How can the foreign policy of a country be to respect international law? I cannot as a professional student understand that. I want to believe that it is an error in statement. If you (Nigeria) want to put a stop to the embarrassment across the world, then have a foreign policy of grandeur. As it is, Nigeria doesn’t have any foreign policy of diplomatic protection. On the visa on arrival policy, the point is why any reasonable government would want to facilitate the entry of all manners of people, especially when the agents of ISIS and their mercenaries have been completely neutralised and Boko Haram insurgents in Nigeria is one of their partners. I do not know whether the situation we find ourselves is truly redeemable with this kind of policy. It’s the worst policy I have seen as a professional student. And on the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, it is a very good policy; beautiful on paper, but there are issues to take note of. When you say you are promoting trade, what are you trading in? Even if a country like South Africa can lay claim to a fairly advanced industrialization, what is the level of industrialisation in Nigeria, the so-called biggest economy in Africa? How many goods do we manufacture? Why did we close the land borders with our neighbours? It was because of the violation of the principle of the rule of origin and same issue would be applicable to the AfCFTA. Again, the infrastructural development Nigeria requires to protect its national productivity is not there, therefore, it will only become a dumping ground for all manners of imported goods. Consequently, I would say it is not time for Nigeria to ratify the agreement. SECURITY: A professional, Mr Chigozie Ubani First of all, we have to agree that Nigeria is militarised, and so the police should be adequately funded. But when we say funding, it’s not just about throwing money into the force; it’s about building an intelligent, smart and sustainable police force. When you see the military all over the country, it shows that the police force is weak. The military should be in the barracks, and from there intervene in certain challenges or emergencies because their duty is to protect the territorial integrity of the nation. Today, the police are seen as a weak force in Nigeria and that is not good for us. So, in 2020, I expect the government to build a stronger, intelligent, smart police. That can be done through training, retraining, capacity building and funding. The reason why some of us are calling for a stronger police is for the military to go back, retrain and build capacity to protect Nigeria from external aggression. We also have to raise our intelligence. The fact is that there are insecurity problems everywhere; several other countries are facing them. So, how you deal with yours is determined by the readiness of your military. JUDICIARY: National Publicity Secretary, Nigerian Bar Association, Mr Kunle Edun Year 2019 had a lot of hiccups and we hope that 2020 will come with a better justice delivery system. The government has to accept the fact that without the rule of law, democracy cannot grow. So, government at all levels must obey judgments of courts and they must stop treating the rule of law with disdain. The fundamental rights of Nigerians should not be trampled upon without valid court orders. The new trend of investigative agencies obtaining 14 days remand order and a renewal of same should be used sparingly, and should not be abused. Also, the fight against corruption should be made more transparent and proactive. There should be no sacred cows. In addition, the trend of procuring interim orders from the Code of Conduct Tribunal to remove public officers from office is another sore point that should not rear its head in 2020 and going forward. The NBA condemns this practice by the Code of Conduct Tribunal and hope that the judiciary will put a stop to it. In 2020 and beyond, the NBA hopes to see a judiciary that is no longer intimidated to perform its constitutional role of protecting the rights of Nigerians and checking the excesses of government officials. For there to be a good justice system, there must be a fearless judiciary. Most importantly, the office of the Attorney General of the Federation should not be seen to be making statements that are patently contrary to extant laws and principles. He should not be seen to be encouraging disobedience of court orders and disrespect to the rule of law. Violating the fundamental rights of Nigerians under the guise of security concerns is an invitation to anarchy, which we hope will not happen again. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 