Afeez Hanafi with agency report At least five persons were killed and nine others injured in separate crashes on the Otedola Bridge, inward Alausa Secretariat,Lagos State and on Bida-Kutigi Road in the Bida Local Government Area of Niger State . Sunday PUNCH learnt that a truck conveying granite had reportedly lost control on the Otedola bridge on Saturday morning and crashed into the barrier on the bridge, colliding with a Lexus Sport Utility Vehicle in the process. It was learnt that the impact of the crash forced the truck head to detach and fall off the bridge, with two bodies mangled. The General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Dr Femi Oke-Osayintolu, said two injured persons were treated on the spot and discharged while the third casualty was taken to the accident and emergency centre, Tollgate, in a critical condition. He said, “Treatment has commenced immediately. Investigations conducted revealed that an articulated truck laden with several tons of granite crashed off the crash barrier on the bridge and collided with a black Lexus SUV. “The truck head subsequently detached and fell off the bridge. The mangled bodies of the victims have been recovered and bagged.” While confirming the Niger crash, the Federal Road Safety Corps Sector Commander in the state, Mr Joel Dagwa, said the accident involved an unregistered articulated vehicle and a bus with the number plate, SHA 683 XA. He told the News Agency of Nigeria on Saturday in Minna that the crash occurred on Friday involving nine people. “Three persons died while six sustained various degrees of injury. We have deposited the corpses at the Federal Medical Centre Bida morgue,” Dagwa said. He blamed the accident on speeding and dangerous overtaking, adding that the corps would continue to monitor road users to guard against dangerous driving on all the major highways in the state. “We will sustain our ongoing aggressive patrols across highways to ensure that road users adhere strictly to traffic rules and regulations to avoid road accidents,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 