Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Nigeria Customs Service has shortlisted a total of 162,399 candidates for aptitude test in its recruitment exercise which began in 2019. The 162,399 candidates were selected out of the 828,333 candidates that applied to be recruited into the service. The 162,399 candidates represent about 19.6 per cent of the total number that applied for the recruitment exercise. The Public Relations Officer, NCS, Mr Joseph Attah, confirmed the development in a statement issued on Monday in Abuja. Attah in the statement said that the candidates were selected after a painstaking shortlisting process by the service. The statement stated that the Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (retd.), had given assurances of his determination to preside over a recruitment process that would be credible, transparent and smooth. It said despite the disturbing attempts by Internet fraudsters to hackinto their website and discredit the recruitment process, the service was committed to ensuring that the recruitment exercise was conducted in a transparent manner. The statement read in part, “After a painstaking  process, a total of 162,399 candidates have been shortlisted out of 828,333 candidates that applied. “In line with our earlier stated guidelines, those shortlisted are being notified via their e-mail addresses and telephone numbers. “Consequently, all those notified will do their aptitude tests at a date and centre indicated in their respective notification slips, they are expected to print from their e-mail account. “For the avoidance of doubt, the NCS recruitment process requires no monetary payment; hence any such request from any quarter should be regarded as fraudulent and ignored.” The statement said all shortlisted candidates should be at the centres with the notification slips and identity card. It added that the candidates were to be in their best behaviour and comply with all instructions during the aptitude tests as doing the contrary could lead to instant disqualification. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com