The management of BEDC Electricity Plc says it has connected Oke-Irhue, an agrarian community in the Uhunmwode Local Government Area of Edo State, to the national grid. The power firm said in a statement that the connection of Oke-Irhue to the grid was to demonstrate its resolve to partner communities without electricity in addressing their power supply challenge after fulfilling all necessary preconditions for energisation. The President General, Oke–Irhue Community General Assembly, Mr Douglas Agbonleni, said, “We, the entire people of Oke-Irhue, are happy in that 15 months after the community’s General Assembly worldwide took up the challenge and struggle to light up our community, God finally answered our prayers during this special season of Christmas by granting our village the opportunity to be linked to the national electricity grid on December 29, 2019.” According to him, efforts to light up the community started in 2002. He commended members of the community and the electricity committee for their patience, commitment and cooperation in ensuring that the energisation project became a reality. Agbonleni urged members of the community to guide “this noble project jealously against the activities of vandals.” He said there would be a reawakened socio-economic advantage engendered by the new status of the community. He thanked the BEDC management for its guide, support and understanding in spite of inadequacies, promising that the OCGA would keep its own side of the bargain “by ensuring the safety of the equipment and meeting our financial obligations.” He also commended the Federal Government and the entire community members, including those in the diaspora, for the actualisation of the project, which he said started through the rural electrification project since 2002. According to the statement, the Federal Government, through the Rural Electrification Agency, embarked on the electrification of the community long before the privatisation of the power sector with the provision of two 300KVA distribution transformers. “BEDC, however, took over the project and carried out enumeration, line rehabilitation/maintenance and the subsequent metering of customers through its Meter Asset Providers scheme,” it said. The power firm said several customers at Oke-Irhue were connected to two 300KVA transformers, adding that 100 customers had been connected in the first phase after the recent energisation. “Others are to be connected in the next phase of energisation after they must have met the wiring standards to ensure safety of customers,” it added. 