Olaide Oyelude, Katsina Two members of an armed robbery syndicate are being grilled by the Katsina State Police Command over their roles in a robbery operation carried out in Kaduna State. This followed their arrest in connection with the operation. The suspects, Haruna Isah, 29, of the Dan-Bushiya Quarter, Kaduna State, and Isiya Auwal, 22, of the Inwala Quarter, Lambata in the Gurara Local Government Area of Niger State, were arrested along the Musawa/Kankia Road in Katsina around 6.15am on December 25, 2019. The Police Public Relations Officer in Katsina State, SP Gambo Isah, who confirmed the development to Northern City News on Sunday, said the duo, along with other members of the syndicate, on the same day attacked the residence of one Alhaji Sani Jibia at No. 38 Stephen Shekari Road, Trade Fair Layout, Kaduna, around 2.30am, and snatched two Toyota Corolla cars, HP laptop, mobile telephones and unspecified amount of money. Isah said, “Nemesis caught up with members of the syndicate when they were accosted by our SARS patrol team along the Musawa/Kankia Road in Katsina State. “In the course of the investigation, another ash Toyota Camry 2006 model was recovered from them after it was abandoned at Yarkutungu, Gyaza village, Kankia Local Government Area of Katsina State. Also, one anti-tracking device, ‘Jammer’, was discovered inside the vehicle. The investigation is ongoing with a view to arresting other members of the syndicate.” In a related development, one Babangida Abubakar, 35, has been arrested for alleged possession of two locally-made revolver firearms and one Dane gun. According to the police, Abubakar of the Maraban Mai Gora village in the Sabuwa Local Government Area of the state was arrested around 4.30pm on December 26, 2019. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 