’Tosin Oluwalowo Leicester manager, Brendan Rodgers, has hinted that Super Eagles midfielder Wilfred Ndidi may be fit for the Premier League clash against West Ham at the King Power Stadium on Wednesday (today). Ndidi needed an operation on his knee after getting injured in training and has not featured for the Foxes since their 2-0 FA Cup victory over Wigan Athletic on January 4. The Leicester manager however said he was not going to rush the midfielder back to action. “Yes, there’s a great chance he’ll be in the squad for tomorrow,” Rodgers told the media on Tuesday afternoon. “We’ll see how he is from today (Tuesday),” Rodgers said in the pre-match press conference. “He’s made an incredible recovery. I think that’s the thing with the type of operation he had, people will recover in different timescales. For Wilf it was 11 days. “He’s been out on the pitch, he’s had all the tests. It’s a great testament to him and our medical team, the work that’s gone in to getting him fit. He’s available, we think. “We’ll give it another period of time just to make sure that he feels good and feels right in himself. He wasn’t one that we wanted to rush, but over the course of the last number of days he’s been fantastic. “He’s been in duels, he’s had the test and if there was going to be any effects, it would have taken place over the last few days. He’s come through it really well.” Rodgers also described the Nigerian international as having a ‘phenomenal’ quality, saying he would be a ‘huge boost’ for his side this week. “He’s a real colossal player for us,” he added. “He allows to defend and to defend forward. He covers a lot of space for our attacking players and there’s not too many players better than him who do that job. “He’s a phenomenal player. To have him back early is a huge boost for us. He has been a miss, no doubt.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com