Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Thursday alleged that the Supreme Court under the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Mohammed Tanko, has become heavily compromised. The PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, during a media briefing in Abuja, said that the apex court’s nullification of the electoral victory of the PDP Imo State candidate, Chief Emeka Ihedioha and the declaration of the APC Imo State governorship candidate, Hope Uzodinma, as the winner of the election was a miscarriage of justice. According to him, the Supreme Court allegedly has now been annexed to execute alleged ignoble agenda of the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government against the Nigerian people. Secondus said, “The Supreme Court, as presently constituted under Justice Mohammed Tanko, has become heavily compromised; lost its credibility and is now annexed to execute ignoble agenda of the APC-led Federal Government against the Nigerian people. READ ALSO: Buhari embarks on first foreign trip in 2020 “That the judgment of the Supreme Court voiding the lawful election of Hon. Emeka Ihedioha (who scored 276,404 votes) and awarding fictitious votes to declare Hope Uzodimma of the APC, who scored 96, 458 votes as governor of Imo state, is highly irrational, unfounded, a provocative product of executive manipulation and a recipe for a crisis, which should not be allowed to stand.” He said it was surprising that the Supreme Court added them to only the APC Candidate. According to him, it is on record that the analysis of the votes from the Imo governorship election as at March 11, 2019 when the results were declared were as follows:  -Total accredited votes: 823,743; total valid votes: 739,485; cancelled votes: 25, 130; and total valid votes: 714,355. He said at the Supreme Court the total valid votes have increased to 950,952, adding that this accounted for 127, 209 votes in excess of total accredited votes of 823,743. He advised Tanko not to allow himself to be used to push the nation to the path of anarchy and constitutional crisis.