’Femi Asu Sahara Group announced on Sunday that its affiliate, So Energy Ghana, had inaugurated a retail station at Alajo, in Accra, to promote seamless access to world-class petroleum products in Ghana. It said in a statement that the new station would serve both private and commercial vehicles in Kotobabi, Alajo, Circle and other suburbs in and around Accra. The group said the operation of the So Energy station would also enhance availability of petroleum products in the region, with projected sale of a minimum of 200,000 litres of Automotive Gas Oil and Premium Motor Spirit monthly. The Managing Director, Sahara Downstream Companies in Ghana, Yvette Selormey,  said, “With the addition of this station, So Energy will continue to provide exceptional services to its customers, and sell quality products delivered at good pump levels and competitive prices. “Expanding our retail network across the major cities in the country is in line with our vision of bringing energy to life by providing access to clean, safe and exceptional petroleum products to drive economic growth and development in Ghana.” Selormey said So Energy, in keeping with the dedication to providing premium customer experience, remained committed to working with the government and good people of Ghana to enhance the growth of the energy sector. According to her, the company is also committed to contributing to the empowerment of lives through support for the Sustainable Development Goals. She said, “So Energy has since become a notable corporate citizen in Ghana with remarkable interventions in education, health, youth empowerment and entrepreneurship. “We are delighted that the So Energy brand is a household name amongst private and commercial drivers in Ghana as they would drive long distances just to purchase fuel from a So Energy-branded station.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com