The Police Command in Bayelsa has confirmed the shooting of a driver working with Peace Mass Transit Company and one other person by a policeman in the state. The Police Public Relations Officer, Asinim Butswat, told the News Agency of Nigeria on Tuesday in Yenagoa that the incident occurred on Monday evening at Ekeki axis of Yenagoa, the state capital. “The Command has arrested and taken into custody, one Police Mobile Force personnel on suspicion of Discreditable Conduct and Unlawful Use of his Firearm. “The policeman involved is currently in detention at the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department, Yenagoa. “The victims have been evacuated and rushed to the hospital and they are currently responding to treatment,” he said. A resident in the area who witnessed the incident, Miss Mercy Edet, said the policeman involved in the shooting opened fire on a commercial bus belonging to Peace Mass transit. “The policeman opened fire when the driver parked beside the bank to discharge a passenger. “After it, the killer cop boarded a commercial tricycle and escaped the scene to avoid the mob. “The trouble started when the policeman got angry because the driver stopped the bus in front of the bank he was guarding,” Edet said. A member of staff of the Peace Mass bus, who refused to mention his name, described the shooting as totally unnecessary. The staff said the driver was behind the wheels of his vehicle when the policeman released the shot. “We were just in front, here, when the policeman started the argument that led to the shooting. “The argument was unnecessary because the driver was just trying to allow his passengers to disembark from the bus. “I heard the driver telling the policeman that he would soon leave the place but before we knew what was happening, the policeman cocked his gun and shoot the man. “He was lifeless. The bullet hit two other passengers who were lying unconscious. “It was an ugly sight but the policeman immediately boarded a commercial tricycle and ran away. “It is very disheartening. The bus came from Onitsha in Anambra without problems only for this ugly incident to happen at its destination,” the staff explained. (NAN)