Gibson Achonu, Owerri The Elders Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party in Imo State has reacted to the prediction of Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, who declared that the All Progressives Congress’ governorship candidate in the last election in the state, Senator Hope Uzodinma, will take over power from the incumbent Governor Emeka Ihedioha. The elders expressed shock that the priest pronounced judgment at his Adoration Ground in favour of the APC candidate in the election. They, however, dismissed the prediction as very sad and contemptuous of the nation’s Supreme Court. Their views were contained in a statement issued on their behalf by Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu. They argued that the Independent National Electoral Commission which conducted the polls had in the pursuit of its duty as the electoral arbiter, declared Ihedioha of the PDP, who scored the highest number of votes cast and also fulfilled all the other constitutional requirements, winner of the poll. The decision, the elders said, was received with a loud ovation by the people of the state. They said, “Since then, Emeka Ihedioha has assumed office and very noticeable transformation has taken place in all aspects of life of the Imo people.” The statement explained that the elders were impressed with the governor’s achievements in the areas of road maintenance, water supply and security. READ ALSO: 18 paraded for disrupting Osun crossover party The elders urged the people of the state and supporters outside the state who worked hard to effect the change in the state that brought Ihedioha to power, to remain calm. They also urged the people of the state to wait on God and the verdict of the highest court in the land. The elders congratulated the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for maintaining neutrality and for resisting the temptation and pressure from some politicians, to use his position to influence the result of the election. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com