Deji Lambo A domestic worker, Abigail Felix, left her boss, neighbours and family members in a state of shock by allegedly drinking a pesticide, DD Force, which killed her a few days to her travelling to her hometown in the Republic of Benin to see her parents. PUNCH Metro gathered that Abigail decided to visit her parents after serving the Akinrinmade family for two years in the Ikeja Local Government Area of Lagos State. Until her death, it was learnt that the 18-year-old was assisting the Akinrinmades with house chores at No. 31A Oyeleke Street, Alausa, Ikeja, and was also keeping sales records at her boss’ shop located in the same address. One Iyabode Adefolami, whose work place in the Alausa area is far from her place of residence, is said to be staying with the Akinrinmades during the week and goes home for the weekend. On the day of the incident, Abigail, who had closed in the shop for the day, allegedly left the house and did not return. When Adefolami, in whose care she was left, did not see her, a search party was organised but the effort proved abortive as she left no trace of her whereabouts. Abigail’s boss son, Yinka Akinrinmade, told PUNCH Metro during a visit to the house that that was not the first time she would suddenly leave the house, adding that when it was late and she was nowhere to be found, her disappearance was reported at the police station the following day. Yinka said Adefolami later observed strange movement in his mother’s apartment and on close observation, she saw Abigail in one of the rooms and demanded an explanation regarding her whereabouts the previous night. READ ALSO: Delta DPO accused of stripping 28-year-old woman He said, “Abigail refused to explain where she was coming from; so, my mother told Adefolami to lock her outside, but Abigail ran into one of the rooms, locked herself up and refused to open the door. So, the lady sought neighbours’ help and when they forced the door open, she was seen lying on the floor. Foamy substances were coming out of her mouth and the odour of an insect repellent, DD Force, was perceived. “We quickly gave her palm oil and water and took her to a health centre at Alausa, where she was given first aid and referred to the LASUTH. When we got there, she was attended to immediately and it was in the process of trying to revive her that she died. She had stayed with us for two years and had just a week left to go and see her parents when she drank the substance. “The police came and while inspecting the scene of the incident, they took the substance away. At the station, her brother, Isaac, confirmed that that was not the first time that she would take such a substance. The family took the corpse away and we paid all the bills, but later, about 10 members of Abigail’s family came back to collect her salary and belongings, because they said her corpse would not be buried if they didn’t get the money and we paid them.” When Abigail’s relative, identified simply as Sunday, was contacted in the Republic of Benin, he said, “I brought her to Lagos, but when we took her corpse home, I was tortured because the family claimed that they didn’t know when I took her to Lagos. But it has been settled and we have buried her.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said it was a case of sudden and unnatural death, adding that a bottle of DD Force insect repellent was found beside her on the floor with foamy substances coming out of her mouth. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] SIM card: Man sues Buhari’s daughter, DSS, demands N500m He said, “One Iyabode Adefolami reported that around 7.45am, she saw her aunt’s domestic worker, Abigail Felix, 18, who left for an unknown place the previous night, hiding in the toilet and she asked her where she went, but she kept mute. “Abigail later locked herself in a room after she was told to go and bathe and prepare to go to the shop, where she was a tailoring apprentice, but she was seen lying on the floor with foamy substances coming out of her mouth. “She was referred to LASUTH, where she later died, and the corpse was deposited in the mortuary. The corpse was released to a member of her family, Isaac Felix, for burial in Cotonou, Benin Republic, according to traditional rites, as the family suspected no foul play.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com