Sola Shittu, Benin A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Edo State, Mr Raymond Dokpesi, says the party now has a lifetime opportunity to recapture the state because of the crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress. Dopkesi stated this on Friday during the PDP stakeholders’ meeting in Agenebode, Etsako East Local Government Area of the state. The meeting preceded a tour of the zone, which is part of the ‘AFEMAI declaration’ programme for the party. ‘Afemai Declaration’, which is slated to hold in Agenebode on Monday, will feature presentation of awards to deserving members of the party. Dokpesi said, “The APC in the state is in tatters, hence a great opportunity for the PDP in the state. The AFEMAI declaration is one of the programmes of the Edo North senatorial district to rally members of the PDP in the zone. “Stakeholders of the party in Edo North will commence a tour to the six local government areas in the zone. “The tour will provide an avenue for the leaders of the party at all levels in the zone to interact with the party members at the grass roots.” Dokpesi also advocated a party structure that is all-accommodating. In his remarks, the Chairman of the PDP in the state, Mr Dan Orbih, said the party would use the crisis rocking the APC to win the forthcoming governorship election in the state. Orbih said history would repeat itself in 2020 as it happened during the PDP crisis which led to the emergence of Adams Oshiomhole as governor. He said, “What is happening in Edo State has a historical side of the story. Some years ago, the PDP worked so hard and installed Prof. Osunbor as governor. After he assumed office, he started quarrelling with the party. There was a big quarrel between Osunbor and Chief Tony Anenih. “It was from that quarrel that the APC took over government from the PDP. Today, history is repeating itself; there is a quarrel between Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki. I want to tell you that from that quarrel, the PDP will come back to power.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com