Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has suspended registration for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination in 243 centres nationwide on Thursday only. It explained that this was to avoid overcrowding at the centres where recruitment was taking place, adding that the registration would resume at the centres on Friday. The JAMB Head of Information, Dr Fabian Benjamin, in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, said, “The board regrets to announce that there would be no (and there should be no) registration in the 243 centres where a third-party recruitment examination will take place across the nation on Thursday (today).” It advised candidates to log on to JAMB website for the list of the centres. The board also said it had arrested five agents for selling e-PINS above the stipulated rates, adding that they had also been suspended from further vending the facility. It warned that any outlet caught selling the ePINS  higher than the prescribed amount would be sanctioned immediately. The examination body stated, “On January 14, 2020, four agents – Abdulrazak Adiza, Mathew Joe, Obekee Godday and Inyang Patrick – were arrested for selling ePINs above the stipulated fee and the vendors were immediately suspended from further participation in the selling of ePINs for the 2020 UTME and Direct Entry registration. “On January 15, one Amodu Friday was apprehended vending the ePINs above the regulated fee. Investigations also revealed that he was actually issuing receipts covering the regulated fee but collecting higher. This is a clear instance of criminality.” The board stated that the arrested vendors had been suspended from further participation in the selling of ePINs for the 2020 UTME and DE registration. It advised parents and candidates to promptly report any case of exploitation, stressing that the ePIN is N3,500 and the reading text N500. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    