Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A former deputy governor of Ogun State, Senator Gbenga Kaka, has said it is erroneous to describe him as one of the loyalists of a former governor of the state, Chief Segun Osoba. He maintained that he was not a loyalist of any political godfather, but he was loyal to the constitution of the All Progressives Congress. The former deputy governor, who served as deputy to Osoba between 1999 and 2003, stated this on Monday while dissociating himself from the Osoba Political Family, a group within the APC. He, however, said he had respect, not loyalty, for some individuals in the party, including Osoba. He said, “I will enjoin our people to please concentrate on building an institution because that is the only thing that can endure. “Loyalty to any individual will not carry us to anywhere. We should stop hero-worshipping and then concentrate on serving our God with our clear conscience and in the overall interest of the people we want to serve, not any demi-god. “It is absolutely erroneous and wrong to say I belong to Osoba’s caucus. Loyalty is to the Almighty God that created me and to the people I want to serve. “But, my respect and adoration is to Chief Osoba and all other leaders. I give respect to them as those who are my seniors and those who are compatriots. READ ALSO: APC campaigning for PDP in Edo, says Orbih “I give them respect and that is as much as my conscience is clear and the interest of the common people we stand for is being protected.  Anything to the contrary, naturally my loyalty will stop.” The Osoba group members were absent at the last week inauguration of the commissioners and special advisers. Kaka, who attended the inauguration, maintained that his loyalty would be to the party and to initiatives that would better the lives of people of the state. Kaka denied knowledge of any division within the APC in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com