Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Federal Government needs to get more involved in global aviation affairs to grow the local industry, an aviation and cybersecurity expert, Mr Ifeanyi Ogochukwu, has said. He said Nigeria would have a better aviation industry if it became more involved in international aero politics. He said, “Most committees in ICAO, Nigeria is not really involved. So, we need to start pushing our people to join those committees. “Government needs to sponsor people; the people don’t have to be in the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority or the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria but specialists who are aviators need to be part of these committees.” According to Ogochukwu, Nigeria needs to have people in global aviation committees, whether they are still working or not because they can serve as guide to the next generation on what is happening in aviation globally. He also urged the NCAA to be firm in its regulatory duties in the industry, adding that the agency must be fully independent from government’s interference. He also stated that issues of safety and security in the aviation environment should be taken seriously, adding that the smallest breach could become a colossal damage and lead to loss of lives. “Security is a continuous thing and it demands that we don’t do security for security sake. We don’t have to wait for ICAO for oversight. We should actually have our internal self-regulatory system that does oversight,” he stated. Ogochukwu explained that in as much as Nigeria had ICAO commendations as regards security, the industry’s security environment was still porous. “You keep hearing of stowaway. The point is that we can do much better than we are doing today. Our airports are not secure the way they should be,” he added. He stated that stakeholders in the industry were doing their best but a lot more still needed to be done. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com