Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja Mobile Internet service providers on Monday differed over the resolution of challenges faced by subscribers due to disruption of services. The disruption was reportedly caused by cuts to submarine cable systems on the high seas in Europe, particularly the West African Cable System, which serves Nigeria and some West African countries. The development made it difficult for many Internet subscribers, especially those using the MTN network, to use the Internet. Financial institutions, including commercial banks, were also affected by the problem. However, MTN said it had resolved the problem. Senior Manager, External Relations in MTN, Mr Funso Aina, when contacted by our correspondent on Monday, said the problem had been resolved. Aina also drew our correspondent’s attention to an announcement made by the telecommunications firm via its Twitter handle where the company informed its customers that the matter had been settled. The tweet, dated January 18, 2020, read, “Dear customer, thank you for your patience. “We are glad that we have resolved all issues with our Internet services. “We apologise for the inconvenience.” However, some mobile Internet service providers, who were also contacted by our correspondent on Monday, explained that the issue was yet to be resolved. A communications consultant with a public relations firm, which handles media relations for one of the mobile Internet providers, told our correspondent that problems arising from the service disruption were being resolved in bits. The consultant, who asked our correspondent to send questions through him to the management of the Internet firm pleaded not to be named as he was not authorised to speak officially on the matter. He explained that it might take the entire week to fully resolve the problem. “The problem has not been resolved totally. It is being resolved in bits. “It is not a problem that will go away just like that. “We understand that work on the resolution of the issues will be going on all through this week,” he said. Questions sent to the management of the mobile Internet service provider have not been responded to as at the time of filing this report. In the same vein, some MTN subscribers also differed over the matter. While some observed that service on the network had been fully restored, others suggested that the problem was still lingering. “I am enjoying full service now; I am able to browse the Internet without any problem,” a subscriber, who identified himself as Ikenna, said. But another subscriber, Johnson, observed that he was still having problems accessing the Internet. The WACS, a high capacity fibre optic submarine cable which links Europe, West Africa and South Africa, reportedly connects 14 countries in two continents. The cable reportedly transfers about 99 per cent of international data in Africa. The cut in the WACS was the latest case of disruption of Internet services occasioned by damage to undersea cables in Africa. More than 10 African countries were affected by the severance of the African Coast to Europe submarine cable in 2018. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    