Lekoil Limited, an oil and gas exploration and production company with a focus on Nigeria and West Africa, has announced the appointment of Mr Mark Simmonds and Mr Tony Hawkins as non-executive directors, with immediate effect. The company said in a statement that Simmonds was the Foreign & Commonwealth Office minister with responsibilities for Africa, the Caribbean, UK overseas territories, international energy and conflict prevention. “He served as a member of the UK parliament for 14 years and was a senior advisor to the then Prime Minister, David Cameron. “He focused on driving and facilitating inward investment into Africa and the Commonwealth across a range of key economic sectors such as hydrocarbons, financial services, health care, infrastructure, energy and agriculture,” it said. According to the statement, Hawkins is an English and Australian qualified lawyer of 20 years’ experience, who has worked in both private practice and corporate roles. “He is a senior energy lawyer, asset manager and commercial negotiator, predominately in oil and gas but also in power, LNG and renewable. Mr Hawkins is currently the Chief Executive Officer at Columbus Energy Resources Plc as well as owning a consultancy firm,” it said. Lekoil also announced that Mr Greg Eckersley, who has served as the company’s interim Chief Financial Officer since May 2019, would not be returning to his previous role on Lekoil’s board as a non-executive director following the completion of his six-month term in that position. It said, “The company’s finance function will be overseen by a recently appointed CFO of Nigerian operations, with the assistance of the wider L finance team. The process to appoint a candidate to assume overall responsibility for the group finance function is ongoing and the company looks forward to providing an update as and when appropriate. “In addition, Non-Executive Director, John van der Welle, will also be stepping down from Lekoil’s board with immediate effect. Hezekiah Oyinlola will assume the role of chair of the audit committee following John’s departure.” The Chairman, Lekoil, Samuel Adegboyega, said, “I would also like to welcome Mark and Tony to the board and thank both Greg and John for their significant contribution to Lekoil. “I know I speak on behalf of the full board when I say that we will miss their contribution to the board function, and we wish them all the best in their future endeavours.” 