Leke Baiyewu and Wale Oyewale Three persons were feared killed by men of the Operation Burst in Oyo town on Sunday following a protest against the failure of the men of the Oyo State Fire Service to extinguish the fire that ravaged the Akesan Market. The victims were reportedly shot by the police while trying to repel the angry mob from destroying public facilities. The Akesan Market is famous for the sale of a wide range of food items, local artefacts, clothing materials and household utensils, among others. The fire, which reportedly started around 2.30am, destroyed wares estimated at several millions of naira and attempts to salvage the goods proved abortive. Only a few shops in the market were spared by the inferno. The fire station in Oyo is only a few metres to the market. The angry mob went wild when officials on duty at the fire station allegedly said they could not do anything to extinguish the fire because there was no water in the fire truck. Although the immediate cause of the fire had yet to be ascertained, eyewitnesses attributed the incident to an electric spark. The enraged mob reportedly set the fire truck and other property at the station ablaze during the protest. Firefighters from Ibadan arrived at the scene with backup from Ogbomoso a few hours later. Eyewitnesses said police operatives attached to the Operation Burst fire live bullets, which claimed at least three lives. A trader in the market, Tunde Rufai, said, “The fire resulted from an electric spark. The people went violent because the firemen said their vehicle was faulty. Men of the Operation Burst were firing shots to scare the protesters away and some people were hit by stray bullets. “I was lucky to salvage my wares from the shop, because my shop is not in the centre of the market.” Meanwhile, the affected traders were seen wailing and counting their losses. Some of them appealed to the state government for help, while others called for the total overhaul of fire fighting facilities in the state. A statement by the Secretary, Oyo Global Forum, Taiwo Adebayo, read, “We condemn this failure in governance and we shall respond more appropriately on this later.” In his reaction, Governor Seyi Makinde expressed shock over the incident. Makinde appealed to the people to remain calm, while investigation was being carried out. The governor wrote on his Twitter handle, “I received with shock the news of the fire outbreak at the Oja Akesan in Oyo town in the early hours of this morning. “Words cannot convey my sadness at this incident and I sympathise with the victims. “I appeal for calm as we investigate the circumstances around the unfortunate incident.” The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare, tweeted, “The news of the inferno that destroyed the popular Akesan Market in Oyo just got to me. I am deeply saddened by this disaster and extend my condolences to all those affected. I will visit shortly and work with the state government to bring relief.” The minister, who described the incident as a great disaster, said the importance of the market to the people of Oyo could not be overemphasised. Meanwhile, the police in the state have described the alleged death of three persons during the protest as untrue. A statement made available to journalists in Ibadan by the state Police Public Relations Officer, Olugbenga Fadeyi, said, “Contrary to widely spread news on the fire incident at the Akesan Market in Oyo town, there was no single shot from the police personnel in Oyo. “Police personnel were deployed immediately in the scene to prevent hoodlums from capitalising on the situation to loot shops and properties in the area. Concerted efforts are being intensified to prevent a breakdown of law and order.” However, the Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps in the state, Oluwole Olusegun, said in a telephone interview that one casualty was recorded during the protest. Meanwhile, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has sympathised with the government and people of Oyo State over the fire that gutted the Akesan Market in Oyo town. Gbajabiamila also expressed “shock and sadness” over the gas explosion at Sabon Tasha in Kaduna, Kaduna State. The Speaker lamented both incidents in separate statements issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, in Abuja on Sunday. On the incident in Oyo, Gbajabiamila expressed regrets over the early morning inferno that claimed the means of livelihood of many traders. He said, “It is with a heavy heart that I received the news of the fire that gutted the popular Akesan Market in Oyo. I commiserate with the victims of the fire for the disruption of their economic activities as a result of the unfortunate incident. Being a historic and ancient market, and very dear to the people of Oyo State, I also empathise with the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, over the incident. “I want to appeal to the people to remain calm and law-abiding, as the government of the state looks into the situation with a view to bringing succour to the victims. Meanwhile, the House Committee on Emergency and Disaster Management, alongside the lawmaker representing the area, Akeem Adeyemi, will intervene to mobilise relief materials.” On the incident in Kaduna, Gbajabiamila said, “It is with shock and sadness that I received the news of the gas explosion that claimed the lives of some Nigerians, including Prof. Simon Mallam, the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission. “While I sympathise with the state government, the survivors and the families of those that died during the explosion, I also pray for the repose of the souls of those that lost their lives to the explosion. I also want to assure them that they are not alone in this trying time of theirs.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 