GODWIN ISENYO There was confusion in part of  the Sabon Tasha area of Kaduna State on Saturday  following a gas explosion which rocked the area. The gas explosion occurred on a business premises located along Kachia Road, Sabon Tasha, in the Chikun Local Government Area around 2pm, according to an eyewitness. A resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said more than five persons were killed. Our correspondent, who was at the scene of the explosion,  learnt that  the Chairman of Nigeria  Atomic Energy Commission, Prof Simon Mallam, was among the five people killed in the explosion. The professor was said to have taken his grandson to a barber’s shop close to where a retail gas outlet is located when the incident happened. However, the fate of the professor’s grandson was unknown as of the time of filing this report. The source told our correspondent, “The victims’ body parts littered everywhere and Red Cross officials used shovels to gather them victims” Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Government has said it will investigate the explosion to know what  caused it. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, said this while speaking in an interview with journalists at the scene. He was however silent on the casualty figure but  several people who sustained injuries were rushed to hospital. Another eyewitness told our correspondent that residents of the area fled when the explosion went off  thinking it was a bomb blast. The Kaduna State Fire Service, the Red Cross Society, officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps and officials of the state security outfit code-named Operation Yaki took part in the rescue exercise. Our correspondent observed that the impact of the explosion shattered windows of  buildings close to the scene. The sound of the explosion was heard several kilometres away from the scene. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  