Peter Dada, Abiodun Nejo, Wale Oyewale and Bola Bamigbola Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akederedolu  and the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria on Monday said there was no religious undertone in Operation Amotekun. The Head, Special Projects and Funding, DAWN Commission, Prince Adetayo Adeleke-Adedoyin,   in an interview with one of correspondents,  said Amotekun was a community participatory initiative. Some muslims in Osun State, who refer to their group as Osun State Muslim Community,  had earlier on Monday alleged that  one of the conditions for recruitment  into  the outfit  was a  letter of recommendation from a church. Denying the allegation, DAWN said, “We know nothing about the Amotekun Golden Rule. “Mischief-makers at work and we distance ourselves from it. Not everything on social media is authentic. Amotekun initiative has no religious underpinnings.” Akeredolu, who is also the Chairman of the South-West Governors’ Forum, denied the allegation that the outfit was sided to one religion. The governor, who spoke through his Special Adviser on Security Matter, Alhaji Jimoh Dojumo, described the allegation made by a religious group in Osun State as untrue. Dojumo said, “Operation Amotekun has not started recruiting, where did they see what they are saying?  It is not true. Amotekun has nothing to do with religion. We have both Muslims and Christians in it . I am a Muslim, we have many other Muslims in it. So  I can tell you that there is nothing like that.” Nothing secretive about Amotekun –Ekiti commissioner Ekiti State Commissioner for Information, Muyiwa Olumilua, who said there was nothing secretive about Amotekun, said everything about the security outfit was in the open. Olumilua said, “Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi had said everything that has to be said  regarding Amotekun. Amotekun has no religious, ethnic nor political coloration or connotation at all. “Amotekun was simply set up to strengthen the security services provided for our people by the police and other security agencies, nothing more. “It has no hidden agenda, no undercurrent at all. It is above board. I believe anybody who is trying to add anything extra to it is being mischievous. “Amotekun is out there for everybody to see. There is nothing hidden about it. There is nothing like recommendations from churches or mosques for recruitment.” Amotekun not a religious affair –YWC One of the coordinators of Yoruba World Congress in Osun State, Desmond Adekanola, in an interview with The PUNCH, said,  “Amotekun is not a religious affairs. It is a solution   to  the security challenges facing the Yoruba nation. The Muslim Community is not speaking for the Yoruba race. “If a group that is not speaking for the race is opposing moves to secure Yorubaland against invasion by invaders, then their position should be ignored.” Meanwhile, the muslims rejected Amotekun, saying the initiative contravened the 1999 Constitution. The group stated this in a communiqué signed by  its President and Secretary, Alhaji Mustafa Olawuyi and Hashim Olapade. But the state Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria, Osun State chapter, Bishop Amos Ogunrinde, urged the leadership of Osun Muslim Community to seek clarification on Amotekun before taking any position. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  