Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The  Ogun State Government has described  the death of the chairman-nominee for the transition committee in the Ipokia Local Government Area of Ogun State, Saibu Adeosun, as shocking . The government, in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor,  Kunle Somorin, on Wednesday, said the governor expressed shock over the death of the chairman-nominee. Adeosun died few hours to his screening by the state House of Assembly. The statement read in part, “He (Adeosun) was such a diligent and resourceful grassroots politician whose skills and astuteness would have helped the people of Ipokia to move to a higher level of development. “He will surely be missed by the All Progressives Congress, the good people of Ipokia LGA that he had plans to lead and the Dapo Abiodun administration will miss his envisaged contributions to our model of inclusive and participatory governance. “Governor Dapo Abiodun prays that the good Lord will comfort his immediate family and grant his soul eternal rest in Aljanah Firdaous.” Also, the senator representing Ogun West,  Tolu Odebiyi, said he received  the news with shock. Odebiyi in a statement said,  “With a deep sense of loss, on behalf of the good people of Ogun West Senatorial District, I share this moment of loss with the people of Ipokia and  considers Adeosun’s exit a monumental loss.” Odebiyi described the deceased “as an astute politician who was very instrumental to the electoral success our great party, the All Progressives Congress, achieved in his local government.” The senator said the deceased was also a member of the Ipokia Local Government Transition Committee in 2016 and a Senior Legislative aide in the National Assembly. Adeosun  was one of the chairmen-nominees for the 20 local government transition committees in Ogun State appointed by Abiodun last week. The deceased was expected to appear before the state House of Assembly screening committee on Wednesday  (yesterday) for his confirmation but died few hours to his screening. A close family source said Adeosun  had already dressed up for a trip to Abeokuta to enable him to appear before the Assembly committee when he decided to take a short rest and did not wake up again. The deceased was a graduate of Mass Communication from the  Ogun State Polytechnic now Moshood Abiola Polytechnic. He was a former Special Assistant and Senior Special Assistant to a former Ipokia LGA chairman. He was also a two-time supervisor in the council. He is survived by his wife, Mulikat Adeosun and three children. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 