Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, on Monday ordered the closure of all retail gas refill outlets within residential areas  across the 23 local government areas of the state. The governor’s order followed Saturday’s gas explosion  at Sabon Tasha in the Chikun Local Government Area of the state which claimed the lives of six persons, including the Chairman of Nigeria Atomic  Energy Commission, Prof. Simon Mallam. The gas explosion occurred on a business premises located along Kachia Road, Sabon Tasha in the Chikun local Government Area between 2.30pm and 3pm. Speaking shortly after assessing the damages at the scene of the disaster, El-Rufai described the incident as “unfortunate.” He noted that the sale of gas within residential areas was a great  risk which should not be allowed. According to him, the government will relocate those in the business of gas refill to industrial layouts where adequate precautionary measures for such business will be put in place. He also appealed to residents to report anybody in gas refill business in the metropolis to relevant authorities for prompt action. The governor proceeded to the late Mallam’s house where he prayed for the repose of the deceased’s soul and others who died or sustained injuries during the incident. He also visited the St. Gerard Catholic Hospital where the victims of the gas explosion were receiving treatment. El-Rufai said, “It is most unfortunate that this incident happened. It is further proof that this is a high risk activity that should not be allowed to be located in residential areas. “We will relocate them. We will give them land in industrial areas where adequate precautions to prevent things like this will be put in place. “But for now, we have to get all these gas refilling plants within the metropolis and towns relocated. We are mapping all of them. For now, they are shut down. “You should report to the Kaduna Environmental Protection Agency so that measures can be taken to chase them out. “While the person may be doing it for money, you will be the victims. So report to KASUPDA or KEPA or write directly to me. It is my duty to ensure that everyone is safe. “In residential areas like this, it is not acceptable to have this kind of facility, we have already given directives that all such outlets should be shut down.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  