Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The founder of the First City Monument Bank, Otunba Subomi Balogun, has described anyone scheming to succeed the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Kayode Adetona, when the stool is not vacant, as an abnormal person. Subomi, who is the Olori Ebi of Arojojoye and the Olori Omo Oba of Ijebuland, said this during the Annual General Meeting of the Arojojoye Ruling House of Ijebuland held at the Fusengbuwa Family Museum, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. It had been rumoured that Balogun was planning to install one of his children to succeed the current Awujale. But he said, “Whoever started that rumour needs his head to be checked properly, whether he is normal, abnormal or sub-normal. “First of all, it is ungodly and unheard-of in the Ijebu history for somebody to be speculating about succeeding Awujale, who is still very much alive. “It has never happened in Ijebuland and I think I am old enough to know many things about Ijebu history and culture. “It is a taboo in Yorubaland to be scheming for Oba’s successor when a reigning monarch is still alive. “Talking generally, we have never heard it in Ijebu that someone is speculating about succession when the incumbent is still there; it is an unusual situation and I have warned everybody not to get me involved. “I am also now adding that it is a sacrilege and an unpardonable sin to be speculating about a future event. It is only the Almighty God that can make a king and any of these people speculating or showing interest may even die before the incumbent.” He described the rumour as unrealistic, saying it was meant to bring him to public ridicule. “Whoever is suggesting that I have any intention or ambition for any of my four boys to succeed Awujale must have his head checked; such persons are just ignorant about me. “My needs are very few, God has been so kind to me and I don’t think it would be the throne of Awujale that I will have anything about. “I am old enough to know quite a lot about the tradition of Ijebu more than the speculators. I am very much in the mid 80s; in fact, I will be 86 soon.  It has never happened in Ijebu, it is a taboo.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  