Nike Popoola Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc has reaffirmed its commitment to the growth of the Nigerian debt capital markets. The Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, Dr. Demola Sogunle, disclosed this at the bonds, loans and sukuk Nigeria conference in Lagos. In a statement, Sogunle noted that the Stanbic IBTC group was constantly driving innovation to encourage growth and development in the markets. He stated that the organisation would continue to facilitate value-added engagement between market participants to further increase understanding of the initiatives required to grow the debt capital markets in the country. The statement said in 2019, Stanbic IBTC won several awards such as the Best Foreign Investment Bank, Best Debt House, Best Equity House and Best Loan House in Nigeria at the EMEA finance African Banking Awards. Stanbic IBTC was also awarded as Africa’s Best Investment Bank at the Euromoney 2019 Awards of Excellence. The Association of Issuing Houses Nigeria also recognised Stanbic IBTC as the Best Investment Bank and Commercial Paper House. According Sogunle, these achievements were a demonstration of the organisation’s position as a leading, end-to-end, financial services provider in Nigeria. While speaking on how the Nigerian debt capital markets fared in 2019, he said that capital markets activities were at its peak in the months of May, June and July. He added that N439bn incorporate paper had been issued in comparison with N470bn over the same period in 2018. He said, “We expect the total volume issued in 2019 to eclipse 2018 as markets have seen yields fall to levels unseen since 2015 and a number of issuers are gearing up to take advantage to lock in lower funding rates for extended tenors. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com