Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt THE acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Gbene Joi Nunieh, has warned that contractors and consultants of the agency who fail to present themselves for verification and documentation will forfeit their payments. Nunieh issued this warning on Wednesday when she visited the Rivers State office of the NDDC, where the Contracts’ Verification Committee for the state was carrying out the exercise expected to end on January 31. She further cautioned that the NDDC would not tolerate charlatans, who were not on the agency’s list. The NDDC boss added that any person presenting fake Interim Payment Certificate would be arrested. She noted that the committee’s assignment, which kicked off on Monday, was the first stage in the redirection programme of the commission, stating that the second stage would entail site inspection and validation. Nunieh said, “Anyone that is not on the NDDC list is not our contractor and such people should be handed over to the security agencies for prosecution. Similarly, anyone that presents a fake Interim Payment Certificate will be arrested. “Contractors always say they are not paid; now, we have asked them to come with all their documents and they are finding it difficult. Some contractors are scared of the verification.” Nunieh expressed satisfaction with the ongoing exercise, adding that the committee planned to verify up to 250 contracts every day. “I am surprised that the turnout has been poor so far. Some contractors are coming with fake documents and of course, they are not our contractors. Some contractors are also afraid to come for the verification. “We urge contractors to come for the verification. We will visit the sites only when a contract has been verified. Please,” Nunieh said. The Head of the Verification Committee in Rivers State, who is also the NDDC Director Agriculture and Fisheries, Mr George Ero, told the acting Managing Director that 82 persons had been attended to out of a total of 2,500 in the list of contractors in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com