Sola Shittu, Benin Youths of the Peoples Democratic Party, Edo State chapter, on Sunday urged the party’s National Chairman, Uche Secondus, to caution the outgoing state chairman, Mr Dan Orbih, to save the party from another tragedy. The coordinator of the PDP Youths for Justice, Alhaji Musa Kadiri, made the call at a press conference in Benin. Kadiri urged Secondus to address the issue of the Edo PDP crisis at the meeting of the party’s National Working Committee scheduled for Tuesday. He said an alleged plot by Orbih to impose Senator Odion Ugbesia as his successor would lead to the party’s loss in the forthcoming governorship election in the state. Four persons have indicated interest to succeed Orbih whose tenure ends in March this year. They are Ugbesia, Fred Okah, Tony Azegbemin and Omi Imoisili. Kadiri said the best option for the PDP to be united and strong after the congresses was for the party to revert back to its zoning principles. “The party can zone the chairmanship to Owan axis or Edo South Senatorial District which has not produced chairman since 1999. “We are putting Secondus on notice to save Edo PDP. Any attempt to allow Chief Orbih have his way would put the party in jeopardy,” he said. Also, the Concerned Youth Forum of Edo PDP led by Mr Obaruakporo John blamed Orbih for the party’s failure to produce governor in Edo in his 12 years as the party chairman. Obaruakporo said Edo Central had won all elections for the PDP from presidential to House of Assembly since 1999 except in 2019 when the chairman forced all the candidates on the party and it resulted to total failure. Ugbesia, in his reaction, said nothing would stop his ambition, adding that the agitating youths “need prayers.” The state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr Chris Nehikhare, had earlier said the support groups were not known to the party. He said many local government chairmen have pledged support for Ugbesia. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com