Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Police Command has arraigned an accountant with the Bukka Hut, Faruq Olanrewaju, before the state Magistrates’ Court in Igbosere for allegedly conniving with a businesswoman, Queen Silas, to steal N948,500 from his employer. Olanrewaju and Silas were on Tuesday brought before Magistrate Folashade Botoku on two counts of conspiracy and stealing. They pleaded not guilty to the charges. According to the police prosecutor, Chinedu Njoku, the defendants committed the offences between November 30 and December 10, 2019, at the Bukka Hut in the Lekki Phase 1 area of the state. “Olanrewaju, an accountant with Bukka Hut, connived with the businesswoman and defrauded his employer of the said sum of N948,500,” he stated. The offences were said to be contrary to sections 411 and 287 (7) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. Botoku, however, admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N100,000 each with two sureties each in like sum, adding that the sureties must be gainfully employed, show evidence of tax payment to the Lagos State Government and have their addresses verified by the court registrar. The case was adjourned till January 24, 2020, for mention. Similarly, five men were also arraigned before the court for their alleged involvement in cult activities. The defendants, Babatunde Oyekunle, Oyetunji Ahmed, Ayinla Ismaila, Adekoya Ibrahim and Emeka George, were arraigned on three counts of conspiracy, membership of an unlawful society and a breach of the peace. They pleaded not guilty to the charges. Njoku told the court that the defendants and others still at large committed the offences on December 13, 2019, around 10pm at Osho Langbasa and Addo in the Ajah area of the state. According to Njoku, the defendants held a meeting of an unlawful society and paraded themselves as members of a cult, adding that they unlawfully assembled to cause a breach of the peace in the area. He told the court that the offences contravened sections 411, 42 (a) and 44 (1) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015, and were punishable under the same section. Botoku admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N100,000 each with two sureties each in like sum, adding that one of the sureties must be a blood relation of the accused, while their addresses must be verified by the court. Botoku adjourned the case till January 24, 2020, for mention. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 