Adelani Adepegba The Nigerian Army said it had decimated more Boko Haram insurgents, bandits and other criminal elements in the North-East. The army also said its troops had freed some captives and recovered firearms during their encounters with the terrorists and bandits. The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Col Aminu Iliyasu, in a statement on Saturday said troops of 121 Battalion deployed in Pulka in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State, while on Operation RUFE KOFA cleared and destroyed Boko Haram hideouts at Zeledva Hills, along the Pulka-Bokko-Ngoshe Road on January 7, 2019. In a related development, the army said the combined troops of 192 Battalion deployed in Gwoza, Borno State, elements of Theatre Strike Force, and the Cameroonian Defence Force, in conjunction with the Civilian Joint Task Force and local hunters, had cleared the Ungwan Gara Kwatara mountain enclave of the insurgents. The statement said, “On sighting the troops, the criminals fled the enclave in disarray. Nevertheless, the resilient troops went ahead to clear the hideout of any presence and activities of the insurgents. “In the process, the troops rescued five abandoned captives – one septuagenarian, three women and one minor.” Iliyasu added that a similar operation conducted by troops of 21 Special Armoured Brigade deployed in Bama, on January 9, recovered the mutilated body of a neutralised Boko Haram terrorist and one AK-47 rifle magazine. In another separate encounter on January 8, troops of 112 Task Force Battalion deployed in the Mafa Local Government Area of Borno State were said to have decimated some terrorists and captured one AK-47 rifle, a bandolier of 7.62mm North Atlantic Treaty Organisation ammunition and four AK-47 magazines loaded with 120 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition. While some terrorists were killed, others were said to have escaped with various degrees of gunshot wounds. Troops of 22 Brigade deployed in Dikwa Local Government Area of Borno State also rescued one Mr Ibrahim, earlier abducted by the criminals. The statement added, “On  January 10, troops of 8 Division, acting on reliable information, intercepted a group of bandits moving with rustled cattle towards Miyanchi in the Maru Local Government Area of Sokoto State. “In the ensuing encounter, three bandits were neutralised. Additionally, two AK-47 rifles, seven AK-47 rifle magazines loaded with 210 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, one rocket-propelled gun Tube, one rocket-propelled gun bomb, a herd of cattle and sheep were recovered from the bandits.” Iliyasu said two soldiers sustained gunshot wounds and had been evacuated to a military medical facility for treatment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com