Justin Tyopuusu, Jalingo Two members of staff of the National Population Commission, Gaddafi Ali-Shehu and Isah Zaradeen, who were kidnapped last Friday in Dan-Anacha village in the Gassol Local Government Area of Taraba State have regained their freedom. The Federal Commissioner, NPC, Taraba State, Mr Sanny Sale, disclosed this at a news conference in Jalingo on Wednesday. Sale said the two workers were abducted at about 3.45pm last Friday while on the commission’s routine Enumeration Area Demarcation exercise in preparation for next year’s national census. The federal commissioner, who said the two workers were released on Tuesday “after concessions were made,” described the period of their captivity as harrowing for the workers, their families and the commission. “The moment we were informed of their abduction through a phone call to this office by the kidnappers, we promptly contacted the relevant security agencies who mobilised to ensure their timely and safe release. “We went into intense negotiations with the kidnappers for the safe release of our colleagues. I personally took charge of the discussions on Monday until they were released,” he said. He did not disclose whether ransom was paid or not when asked. Sale, however, thanked all the security agencies in the state for their support in ensuring the release of the two NPC workers. In a chat with journalists, one of the victims, Shehu, said they were abducted on Friday while carrying out their duties in the area. According to him, two men riding on a motorcycle accosted them and ordered them at gunpoint to climb the bike. “We were sandwiched between the two and whisked away to an unknown destination,” he said. The Police Public Relations Officer, DSP David Missal, who attended the press conference, told journalists that security agencies were working hard to stop the menace of kidnapping and sundry crimes in the state. Missal called on motorists to avoid night journeys as criminals usually operated in the state at night. “There have been massive deployment of security forces around the Dan-Anacha axis and so far it is yielding result,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 