Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja There will be above normal rainfall across the country this year, the Nigerian Meteorological Agency announced on Tuesday. Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, made the announcement  while outlining some of the rainfall predictions for this year, as contained in the 2020 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction released by NiMet in Abuja. Speaking on rainfall amount, he said, “A ‘normal to above normal’ rainfall is expected generally in the country. It is expected that total rainfall amounts will range from 400mm in the north to about 3,000mm in the south.” He stated that on the onset of the planting period, the predicted 2020 onset of the growing season was expected to be near-normal to earlier than normal in most parts of the country. According to the report, the earliest onset date would likely occur on February 24 around the coastal zone of the South-South states, while states like Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara, Katsina, Jigawa, Yobe and Borno were predicted to likely have their onset from June 2, 2020. On cessation, the minister said a normal to later than normal cessation was expected across the country. “The earliest cessation date of around 26th September 2020 is expected around Katsina and the northern parts of Sokoto, while the latest cessation date is expected on the 28th December 2020 over the Niger-Delta region,” he added. For the length of growing season, the minister said a normal to longer than normal length of season was generally predicted across the country. He said, “In the year 2020, the length of growing season is expected to span 110-160 days in the Sahelian region of the north and 210-280 days in the south.” On pre-onset rainfall or false onset, Sirika stated that before the full establishment of the onset of the planting season over the various ecological zones, a couple of rainfall events were expected to occur which could be enormous and tend to give a false start of the season. He noted that such rainfall events were not uncommon, adding that their frequency seemed to be on the rise. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   