Okechukwu Nnodim The Russian Federation has expressed its readiness to partner the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation in the development of Nigeria’s upstream, gas and power sectors. This was made known by the Russian Federation Ambassador to Nigeria, Alexey Shebarshin, during a working visit to the Group Managing Director, NNPC, Mele Kyari, on Friday. Shebarshin, who stated that the visit was to consolidate on the gains made from the Russia-Africa Summit held in Sochi last year, added that the Russian embassy in Nigeria was keen on enhancing the bilateral co-operation between the two countries across the oil and gas value-chain. He was quoted in a statement issued by the NNPC, as saying, “We are particularly interested in participating in Nigeria’s power infrastructure projects. “We would also keep close track of the ongoing negotiations between the NNPC and Gazprom on the restoration of the bilateral cooperation which aims to revive and solidify the venture between our two companies for gas infrastructure development in Nigeria.” Shebarshin highlighted the Memorandum of Understanding signed between the NNPC and Russian-based company, Lukoil, which focused on refinery rehabilitation, adding that he was ready to provide assistance to move the project forward. Kyari thanked the ambassador for the visit and assured him of the NNPC’s commitment to partner the Russian embassy in Nigeria to ensure that the two countries benefit from the bilateral cooperation reached in Sochi, Russia. He said, “As a national oil company, we are committed to growing Nigeria’s economy. We will set up communication channels with the Russian companies, Lukoil and Gazprom in particular, to promote this collaboration for the benefit of our two countries.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com