Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has set up a five-man committee to provide a lasting solution to the crisis rocking the National Union of Local Government Employees in the state. The committee, which is headed by the Chairman, Local Government Service Commission, Chief Samuel Abejide, is to advise the government on how to resolve the succession crisis rocking the union. Other members of the committee are the Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Prof. Adio Folayan, Chairman of NULGE, Ona Ade, and the Permanent Secretary, Local Government Service Commission, Mr Mayowa Oyedeji. Fayemi made the disclosure on Sunday during a meeting with the chairmen, directors of administration and finance of the 16 local government areas in the state. The governor, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Biodun Omoleye, said, “The committee, which is expected to submit its report within a week, will undertake a holistic approach to harmonise all the stakeholders within NULGE and its environs, with specific attention to remote causes of the crisis and advise government on how best to tackle it.” He said labour matters were of serious concern to every government, adding that  no government would sit down and allow labour matters degenerate and discredit the government. He said, “The government is constantly faced with diverse challenges and it comes in different forms, but of great concern is the frequency of security report coming to government about the possibility of a looming crisis that could distort the industrial harmony at the local government level.” Fayemi said government was bound to take necessary precautionary measures to forestall the breakdown of law and order. The governor, advised the leadership of NULGE, to live up to its responsibilities by making move to harmonise the different groups in the interest of industrial peace and harmony. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com