Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, on Tuesday, faulted the Ijaw Youth Council’s position that IPOB should not hold its planned meeting in Bayelsa State. The IYC, Central Zone, led by Olorogun Kennedy, had, on Monday, asked members of IPOB to steer clear of the state, and looked elsewhere for their planned national meeting or attract the wrath of the IYC. But reacting on Tuesday, a statement from the Director of Media and Publicity of the secessionist group quoted the Bayelsa State coordinator of IPOB, Igrubia Gbalam, as saying that it was either that the chairman of the IYC, Central Zone, had forgotten his origin or was acting the scripts of his, “Fulani masters.’ The statement read, “Unknown to Mr Olorogun Kennedy, whose first name points to his true origin, Bayelsa State and Ijawland is the birth place of Biafra. Mr Olorogun Kennedy is a DSS informant craving the attention of his Fulani masters by making attention-grabbing comments on the pages of newspapers to attract more financial reward from those that have rendered Niger Delta desolate. “This is so shameful because it is obvious that those leading IYC central zone knows nothing about Ijaw people, history, struggle, survival and enemies. Yes, it is obvious they don’t know the enemies of Ijaw people because if they had known, they wouldn’t have ignored the Ijaw community, Bilabiri, burnt down by the Nigerian military to come and be threatening IPOB, who are the only voice speaking against such evil in Ijawland. Mr Olorogun is pretending he was not aware of previous and ongoing dialogue between IPOB leadership and prominent Ijaw people in the Disapora. “The whole world knows that IPOB is the only organisation bold enough to confront the excesses of the terrorist government of Nigeria and if the IYC central zone is standing against IPOB but mute against the evil meted to Ijaw people by the oppressive Nigerian military, then it means that their loyalty is no longer towards the Ijaw people but to those who oppress us.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   