Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Nigerian farmers on Tuesday stated that their performance in terms of food production and supply in 2019 was above average. According to them, although the year came with its challenges, farmers across the country delivered on their mandates and were able to reduce post-harvest losses considerably. The  Chairman, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Lagos Branch, Femi Oke, as well as other farmers in Abuja, told our correspondent that the closure of Nigeria’s land borders also impacted positively on farming across the country. Oke said, “Post-harvest losses have been very minimal. Many farmers who are into the cultivation of perishable crops like tomato and pepper no longer use baskets. They now use plastics and the likes and this has helped to curb losses. “Also, in the rearing of livestock, I don’t think we recorded bird flu in 2019. And even if it was recorded in some places, it was much reduced because everyone has been taking steps to curb losses in our farms.” He added, “So our livestock farmers are doing well and the same can be said about most crop farmers. Our farmers who are into rice cultivation, since the closure of the borders have been doing fantastically well and are making remarkable rice sales.” The AFAN chairman stated that the impact of training embarked upon by farmers in 2019 was enormous, adding that Nigerian farmers were optimistic about better output in 2020. Oke said, “The 2019 sale was enormous and very encouraging, while the post-harvest losses were not as much as what we used to record in previous years. “The impact of various training embarked upon by farmers improved awareness and the use of better seedlings, among others, contributed to the success recorded in 2019. “For the year 2020, we look forward to having more investors in the sector and we the farmers are expecting a very fruitful year. This is because 2019 had been a very successful year for us.” Joel Olorunshola, a young farmer managing an oil palm plantation in Kogi State, stated that although the agricultural terrain in Nigeria was difficult for budding agro-ventures, the year 2019 provided opportunities for many farmers. Olorunshola, who also works with the Farm and Infrastructure Foundation, Abuja, stated that he was able to establish his own oil farm. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 