Akande Adeyinka, an accomplice of Olamilekan Oke in the robbery and subsequent murder of the wife of the Managing Director of Maersk, Benedett Tohouo, tells SIMON UTEBOR his side of the story What do you do? My name is Akande Adeyinka. I am from Oyo State. I am 28 years old and I am single. I reside in Somolu area of Lagos State. I run a printing press – the finishing aspect of printing. Why did you kill Bernedett, the wife of Maersk MD? It was not intentional. The incident happened in their apartment. It happened when we were asking questions like how much they had and they were not cooperating. When you asked them how much they had, what did they say and what did you and your partner do? The husband, a Cameroonian, told us how much they had. He said they did not have money in their Nigerian accounts but they had money in their foreign accounts and that they were not receiving alerts from their foreign accounts. They said if they needed money, they usually made transfers from their foreign accounts to their Nigerian account. By that time, I was standing with the husband in the room. My partner, Lekan, went to another room to confirm from his wife. Lekan said the wife was not telling him the truth and was not cooperating with him. What happened after that? He still went back to the room to ask the woman the second time. It was the second time that he attacked the woman. After attacking the woman, he came back alone to meet me where I was with the woman’s husband, telling me he had killed the woman. I asked him why he did so. He said the woman recognised him and that if we left the place, the woman might call people’s attention to the incident. I asked what we were going to do after killing the woman. He said we were going to kill her husband also. He stabbed the man while I hit the man with an iron rod with me. When we finished with the man, we went to check the woman and noticed that she was already dead. That was when we left the house. Before you left, was the man also dead? The man wasn’t dead, he was still breathing. What pushed you into the crime? When he told me about the robbery, I had nothing on me. I was dead broke. Initially, I never knew killing was going to be involved. I just thought we were going to collect money from them and leave. In short, it was poverty that pushed me into the act. READ ALSO: If I don’t get God’s mercy, so be it –Suspected killer of Maersk MD’s wife But you said you were into printing, how come you abandoned your job for robbery? I only got jobs once in a while. And when he told me about it, I had not got any job for close to five months, so I embraced it. How many of you are in your gang? We don’t have a gang. We never operated before. That was the first time we operated. When we got to their apartment, my friend, Lekan, said the woman recognised him and he feared she would expose us if we did not kill her. How did you gain entry into the residence of your victims? Somebody was having a party in the compound. I used the name of that person to gain entry into the compound. My friend told me the name I would mention when I got to the gate of the compound. Why did you wait until the day of the party before you went to rob them? We did not have any plan of going there. The idea came to us because they were having a party there. That was the only way we could gain entrance into the compound. Were the people having the party not around when you gained entrance into the house? Some of them were still around. It was the person that hosted the party and few of his friends that were still available. They were packing the chairs. What time of the day did you carry out this operation? It was in the evening, around 7pm. Were you not afraid that your victims could shout and anything could happen? We were somehow afraid initially but we never knew death would be involved. What weapons did you use to rob the victims that day? We did not use a gun. We have never used gun. As I said earlier, we never attacked anybody. We used the knives we got from their place to attack them. I didn’t even know them; it was my friend that told me about them. I had never seen or met them before. He was the one who told me  there were some people we could rob to make money. He was the one that worked for them. How were you arrested? I was arrested where I was hiding in the compound. I don’t know who informed them. I just found out there were police in the compound. Now that you have been arrested, how prepared are you to face the consequences? Since the law has caught up with us, I know the law will take its course. Whatever the law brings, we are ready to face the consequences. So you have accepted your fate… If help comes, we may accept it. And if it does not come, we will face the consequences. Did you consider the consequences of your action before you went into crime? We did not know anybody was going to die, so we thought we could just get something from them and leave but unfortunately, it did not turn out as planned. This is what I have regretted most in life. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com