Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command has issued a seven-day ultimatum to owners and operators of unregistered vehicles in the state to register such vehicles to avoid being prosecuted by law enforcement agents. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Sunday that criminal elements had devised a means of operating with unregistered vehicles to attack unsuspecting members of the public without any trace. He stated that the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had set up a special operation to clamp down on traffic law violators in a bid to restore sanity on Lagos roads. According to the PPRO, the ultimatum starts today (Monday) and elapses by 11.59pm on Sunday, January 12, 2020, while the clampdown will begin on Monday, January 13, 2020. He added that traffic violators would instantly be arraigned before the Lagos State Special Offences Mobile Court. Elkana stated, “The Lagos State Police Command has issued a seven-day ultimatum to owners and operators of unregistered vehicles in Lagos State to register their vehicles or face the full weight of the law. Also affected are vehicles with covered or defaced number plates, vehicles with fake number plates and vehicles without number plates. “Users of number plates with special inscriptions like ‘Chief’, ‘Chairman’, ‘Ambassador’, ‘Baale’, ‘Iyaloja’, ‘Sarki’, or bearing personal names, among others, are required by law to register such customised number plates. Escort vehicles and bullion vans must also be registered. It is not enough to inscribe just the word: ‘Escort’ or ‘Pilot’ as it is not sufficient enough to track such vehicles. Vehicles displayed for sale in various car marts must have the dealers’ stickers conspicuously pasted for easy identification. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, has set up a special operation to clamp down on violators of traffic laws and to embark on massive enforcement at the expiration of the seven-day ultimatum. The ultimatum will start from Monday, January 6, 2020, and elapsed by 11.59pm on Sunday, January 12, 2020. The massive clampdown begins on January 13, 2020, until sanity is restored on our roads. READ ALSO: Bandits kill army officer, three soldiers in Niger “This enforcement becomes necessary considering the fact that criminal elements in the recent past have devised a means of operating with such vehicles to attack unsuspecting members of the public without any trace. “A recent example was a case that occurred on Allen Avenue, Ikeja, where an operator of a Bureau De Change was attacked, robbed and murdered by a criminal gang that used an unregistered vehicle, making it difficult for detectives to track the vehicle. “For the avoidance of doubt, Section 4 (1) of the Road Traffic Act, Cap 548, prohibited the use of unregistered, unlicensed and unmarked vehicles. Any person, who forges or fraudulently defaces, alters, mutilates or adds anything to a licence or identification mark, or uses on their vehicle a licence or identification mark belonging to another vehicle is guilty of an offence under Section 32 of the Act. See also the provisions of the Lagos State Traffic Law for various offences.” In another development, the command says it has arrested 28 traffic offenders and 47 persons for indiscriminate parking in different parts of the state. Elkana said most of those arrested were customers of different clubs and worshipers in different churches in the state, adding that the obstruction caused by the indiscriminate parking of vehicles on roads was causing gridlock on the highways and streets. He stated, “The Lagos State Police Command has over the last few weeks arrested 75 persons and impounded 75 vehicles for driving against the traffic and indiscriminate parking in different parts of the state. Twenty-eight of the offenders were arrested for driving against the traffic, while the rest were arrested for indiscriminate parking at different clubs and business premises in the state. “Such indiscriminate parking results in major obstruction on the highways and streets and causes gridlock. Inasmuch as such clubs and business outfits have the right to run their businesses, our road users equally have the right to free flow of traffic. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Ex-convict arrested for snatching phone in Lagos “Business owners and operators of clubs and worship centres have a duty to ensure that their customers, staff, visitors and followers do no create obstruction on the roads where they operate for the benefits of other road users. “The vehicles impounded included private cars, commercial vehicles, trucks, bullion vans and escort vehicles, which were driven against the traffic. The message is clear; no one is above the law. Odumosu maintained that the operation would be sustained and called on road users to obey traffic laws at all times.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 