Samuel Awoyinfa The Imo State Governor, Emeka Ihedioha, has presented a Certificate of Occupancy to the African Export-Import Bank for it to build a business hub, the Africa Quality Assurance Centre in the state. A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Chibuike Onyeukwu, on Tuesday indicated that the governor issued the certificate to the officials of the bank led by its President, Prof Benedict Oramah, at the Government House, Owerri, on Monday. Ihedioha while delivering the certificate during a courtesy call by the management of the bank assured them that the state presently had a responsible leadership that was conscious of the demands of the time. He said that Imo State was home to businesses and possibilities and was open to partnering prospective investors for the growth of the state. The governor alongside other top government functionaries led officials of the AfreximBank to the site where the centre would be built at the Ngor Okpala Local Government Area. Ihedioha said the centre would provide certification and inspection services for various export products. He said, “The centre which is the first of its kind in the entire South-East and South-South regions is an indication of responses of our investment drive geared towards rebuilding Imo State. “This is a significant leap in our efforts to advance our state and make it a huge business hub and more importantly provide employment opportunities and boost economic development for the state. “The centre is a reflection of the efforts of this administration to restore confidence of investors and development partners in Imo State as an investment destination.” Ihedioha who charged them on the commencement of work at the site expressed the willingness of his administration to partner them in development of tourism potential, entertainment village, industrial park, dry port, and the reinvigoration of Concord Hotel, among others. He said, “We are in a hurry to maximise our potential as the state with the highest literacy rate in the country. “Our government is ready and willing to provide the human capacity for any business and indeed we shall provide necessary support for the business to thrive.” Governor Ihedioha had embarked on a trade and investment working visit to the annual general meeting of the Afrexim Bank held in Moscow from June 20th- 22nd 2019. Oramah stated that they were in the country to support governments that promote development. According to Oramah, the choice of Imo for the centre was necessitated by the demonstration of vision and passion for development as exemplified by the governor of the state. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com