Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the breakdown of faulty vehicles is one of the major causes of gridlock in the state. The governor made this known during the inauguration of an ultra- modern office accommodation for the Lagos State Vehicle Inspection Officers to boost their capacity and create good working environment. He said traffic officials had been empowered to ensure that only roadworthy vehicles would ply the roads for the safety of lives and property of residents. The governor said the state had been able to achieve 21st Century improvement in service delivery in the transport sector through technological innovations such as the use of Automated Number Plate Recognition, electronic testing, Lagos Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service, Forensic Laboratory and Auto-Vin, and E-testing for driver licence. He said the state would consolidate on the success recorded in the new infrastructure and technology and replicate similar offices of the same capacity in all the 20 local government areas and 37 local council development authorities in the state. Sanwo-Olu urged traffic officials to justify government’s investment in infrastructure by rededicating themselves to duty and ensuring genuine commitment to duty. He said his administration would remain committed to more investment in the transport sector. The Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, said the provision of the facility was in line with the Vehicle Inspection Service vision to serve the people of the state better. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Mr Sewedo Whenu, said stakeholders would meet the transport needs of the state. He stated that the Vehicle Inspection Service and Ministry of Transportation would continue to initiate new ideas that would help to reduce gridlock in the state, thereby promoting trade and commercial activities necessary for its economic growth. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  