Rasheed Bisiriyu The Lagos State Government has announced the closure of another level crossing to facilitate the construction of the ongoing Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line where some roads are located. It said in a statement that “Toyin Level Crossing around Okusanya Street will be closed on the 21st and 22nd of January, 2020 from 6pm to 12noon.” It explained that in line with the Nigerian Railway Modernisation Project (Lagos-Ibadan section) with extension to Lagos Port at Apapa, “the Lagos State Government will be hoisting beams for the new Costain Bridge from Saturday 18th to Sunday 19th January, 2020.” According to the statement from the state’s Ministry of Transportation, alternative routes have been provided for road users during the period to ensure motorists and other people using the area get to their destinations with ease. “Motorists plying the Costain axis will be diverted to the newly completed section of the new bridge, while commuters driving along Okusanya Street are advised to make use of Jonathan Coker Street to get to their destinations,” it stated. Even as it explained that the closure had been slated at this time to ensure uninterrupted flow of work on the rail tracks, the state government appealed to the affected residents, especially motorists plying the corridor to show understanding. “The project is aimed at achieving a seamless multi-modal transport system that will meet the transportation need of a larger population.” The state government had previously closed a number of other roads to traffic for similar reasons. Some of those closed are the level crossings at the PWD, Ikeja and the Nigerian Brewery in the Iganmu area of the state. Also shut temporarily are the level crossings at the Post Office, Agege; Ashade, Ikeja; and Ilupeju bypass. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  