Johnny Edward Kelechi Iheanacho says he is thrilled to get on the scoresheet for the sixth time in eight matches in all competitions this campaign for Leicester City, Sports Extra reports. Iheanacho came off the substitutes bench to score the equaliser five minutes later to hand Leicester City a  deserved draw and leave the Carabao Cup semi-final against Aston Villa delicately poised after an entertaining encounter at the King Power Stadium. Dean Smith’s side had earlier went ahead through a Frederic Guilbert’s 28th minute strike. The 23-year-old told the club’s official website that he remains focused and composed in the moments leading up to his strike against Aston Villa on Wednesday. “It’s another goal,” said Iheanacho in an interview with LCFC TV. “I’m really happy. I got the chance and I took it. “As a striker, you need to be focused and composed in front of goal and the chance came and we took it. “The squad did really well in the second half and the pressing we did led to the goal, so we’re happy.” Iheanacho also added that the Foxes will now focus on their upcoming Premier League clash with Southampton on Saturday, and will work towards their second leg encounter with Villa when the time comes. “Of course, we have a Premier League game next, but I think we’ll concentrate on that then we’ll get to Villa Park and see what happens. “I think it wasn’t a bad result, we got the draw. “We should’ve done better but in the second half we were a bit better. Now, we need to focus on the next games. “It’s two legs now. Of course, we have a Premier League game next, but I think we’ll concentrate on that then we’ll get to Villa Park and see what happens.” The second leg of the tie will hold on January 28 at Villa Park. The winner of the second leg tie will face either Manchester City or Manchester United in the final at Wembley Stadium on Sunday 1 March. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 