Deji Lambo Residents of the the Soluyi II area of the Kosofe Local Government Area of Lagos State, have accused the government of causing them untold hardship. This follows the abandonment of the construction of the Aderemi Akeju Street, linking Yetunde Brown Street. When PUNCH Metro visited the area, it was observed that weeds had taken over a portion of Aderemi Akeju Street and earthmoving equipment was on the site. Landlords, residents and business owners lamented that the abandoned project had negatively impacted commercial activities in the area and called for it to be completed by the state government. According to the residents, during the tenure of the immediate past governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, it was anticipated that when the Deeper Life Bible Church’s headquarters, which was under construction in the Gbagada area of the state then, would be completed, it would attract an influx of people to the area and cause gridlock that would create hardship for the residents. In a bid to address the challenge, the Ambode administration was said to have embarked on the construction of a network of roads in the area, including Aderemi Akeju Street to link Yetunde Brown Street, to serve as alternative routes to ease vehicular movement and alleviate the gridlock that motorists might encounter after the completion of the mega Deeper Life Bible Church. However, a few months after the construction work commenced, the residents lamented that the project was abandoned and complained that business activities had been paralysed as a result. A landlord in the area, Rotimi Fayemi, said commercial motorists had abandoned the street because of the poor state of the road, adding that the rainy season would compound the residents’ suffering. He stated, “Since October 2018, we have been clamouring for the reconstruction of Aderemi Akeju Street as the road connects Yetunde Brown Street in Ifako. The major story behind the road is that due to the construction of the mega Deeper Life Bible Church, the government decided to open a network of roads for us so that we can go and come in without any problem, especially when the church is having its service. “At a point, we learnt that the government told the church that until it opened up other routes for the residents of the community, the use of auditorium would not be allowed. So, around October 2018, work started on this road under Ambode and we were told that the job would take about six months to be completed. “Since then, it has been a story of abandonment, because they constructed drainages and a bridge connecting us to Yetunde Brown Street in Ifako and suspended the job. We started hearing stories that it was because of the denial of Ambode’s second term opportunity that led to the suspension of the project. But government is a continuum; even if Ambode is no longer there, whoever that is there should continue with whatever he left behind.” When contacted, the Baale of Soluyi II, Solomon Olamiju, said the project was delayed because one of the community development associations wrote a petition to the governor to redirect it to another route after it had been originally designed to pass through Aderemi Akeju Street. He, however, said the government had during a meeting with the stakeholders in the community decided to continue with the original plan. Olamiju stated, “What has been delaying the construction after the change of government is that the Harmony Community Development Association did not want the road to pass through its area. It sent a petition to the governor and we have met about three or four times over the petition and the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development has taken the final decision that it has to pass through Soluyi II. The government said it would cost it additional N500m for the road to go through where the CDA is proposing. “The initial plan for the construction is that it should pass through Aderemi Akeju Street in Soluyi II and down to Yetunde Brown Street and then to Adegbenro Street and link the expressway. But the CDA is saying that it should pass through Adegenro Street and come out under the Ogudu Bridge. But the place is a waterlogged and it will cost the government an additional N500m. So, the government is maintaining the initial plan. “At the last meeting, I told them that my people were suffering and that they could not continue living like that; even when there was no construction, we had a bridge that was constructed by us with wood to link Yetunde Brown Street and my people were moving freely, but now, with the construction, so many things have been destabilised.” When contacted, the Director of Public Affairs, Ministry of Works, Adesegun Ogundeji, explained that the Soluyi project was inherited but stressed that the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration had vowed to complete every inherited project in the state. Ogundeji stated, “I am positive that we will be back on the site during the first quarter of 2020. The contractor has not left the site. The project is ongoing; it will be delivered just like every other project. This administration inherited the Isawo Road, the contractor is back there; Ijede Road is on going because the contractor is there; the contractor is back on the Tinubu Road in Igbogbo. “This government has promised that it will complete all projects. The contractor in Soluyi II is the same contractor that has just finished delivering 31 roads in Ojokoro. The Soluyi II project was inherited and we will deliver it.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com