Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The All Progressives Congress has recommended the South-West’s security network codenamed ‘Operation Amotekun’ to other geopolitical zones in the country in a bid to eradicate crime. The party’s National Vice-Chairman and the South-West APC Zonal Caucus Chairman, Bankole Oluwajana, gave the advice in a statement on Tuesday. He lauded the efforts of the six governors of the zone at securing the Yoruba nation through the establishment of ‘Operation Amotekun’ billed for inauguration on Thursday. He said the security outfit would have far-reaching effects if other zones replicate it. Oluwajana’s statement was released in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday by the APC South-West Zonal Publicity Secretary, Karounwi Oladapo. He described Operation Amotekun as a laudable initiative to flush out criminals from the zone. The statement read, “The Western Region has always been a pacesetter in developmental initiatives. “We therefore urge the neighbouring zones of the South-South, South-East and North-Central to replicate this security approach in their zones. “This will ensure that the criminals, flushed out in the South-West zone will not see their states as safe haven where they can hide and launch attacks on our border towns. “The ultimate goal is to make our people sleep with their two eyes closed, move from one place to the other without fear of abduction and make the South-West zone, a destination of choice for investors. “The APC leadership urges the people of the South-West to cooperate with the personnel of the Amotekun and provide them credible intelligence to enable them to perform optimally. “The party is particularly impressed that the governors hearkened to the call of the party at the height of kidnapping activities in July, 2019, asking the governors to rise up to the challenge of kidnapping and other forms of criminality in the zone. “This led to the prompt actions taken by the governors and other critical stakeholders that brought the currency of abductions to the barest minimum in the zone. “The strategic approach of the governors to deliver their mandates of securing the lives and properties of the Yoruba people was responsible for the purchase of security vehicles, motorcycles, communication gadgets and the coordination of the conventional security agencies and unconventional security outfits, preparatory to the launch that we are about to witness.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com