Chima Azubuike, Gombe The Gombe State Commissioner for Finance,  Muhammad Magaji, says 2020 budget of N130.83bn   is targeted at key sectors of human development. The commissioner said this  on Tuesday while briefing journalists  on the budget. He said the desire of Governor  Inuwa Yahaya’s administration to massively transform the state, informed why the 2020 budget was designed to address priority areas of the state’s economy. He listed the priority areas as the expansion of the physical infrastructure to all the locations of the state, and the deepening the education sector investment for an overall quality access to primary, secondary and tertiary education. Magaji noted that the 2020 budget, tagged  ‘Budget of Change’, was also designed to strengthen and reinvigorate investment in human capital development, as well as promote  investment in rural and urban areas. He stressed that the priority areas also include, “putting in place a functional social protection policy, safety net programmes for the youths, women, physically challenged, the rural poor and the aged people in the state.” He added that, “Education  got 17.40 per cent, Health – 9.90 per cent, Agriculture- 4.40 per cent,  and infrastructure -18.75 per cent of the budget” Magaji noted that the budget would strengthen development partnership , and boost existing health care architecture, adding that the existing ones would be upgraded for improved access and construction of new ones in critical locations as well as paying attention to human resources for health, equipment and drugs. He noted that the government will embark on tenacious internal revenue drive. Magaji explained that the administration would also be  observe”zero tolerance to non-adherence to fiscal responsibility and management principles, and it would strengthen  the existing security architecture and promote peaceful co-existence. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com