Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The acting Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, told our correspondent in an exclusive interview on Sunday that the leadership of the red chamber was not losing sleep over the lawsuit initiated by the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, BudgIT, Enough is Enough, and 583 concerned Nigerians against the National Assembly. SERAP and others had filed a suit asking the Federal High Court in Abuja, to restrain the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) the leadership of the National Assembly and others from releasing N37bn allocated to the Federal Capital Development Authority for the renovation of the National Assembly until an impact assessment of the spending was carried out. The Senate spokesperson when our correspondent sought to know if the red chamber had raised a legal team to respond to the lawsuit. “They (SERAP and others) are wasting their time. We don’t have anything to tell them in court. National Assembly doesn’t know anything about what they are talking about. “We don’t know how they (the FCDA) arrive at their figure. The money is also not in our budget; so, why are they taking us to court when the building does not even belong to us. “Dont worry, when we get there, you will know.” Akwashiki had, in an interview with journalists at the premises of the Senate penultimate Monday, explained that the leadership of the National Assembly only informed the owners of the complex, when the building was giving signs of imminent collapse. He also explained that the leadership and the management of the federal parliament would neither be involved in the award of the contract nor fund it from their budget. He said the N37bn would be paid directly into the accounts of the FCDA which would disburse the funds to the contractors and also carry out necessary supervision. Asked if the Senate was not bothered about the public outcry that had greeted the cost of the project, Akwashiki had said, “What’s the outcry for; that they (the FCDA) should not renovate the National Assembly or what?” He had also said, “I have said this before that this issue has nothing to do with the National Assembly. It is all about the Federal Capital Development Authority.  The building belongs to the FCDA, which built it. “The FCDA management knows how much it needed to fix the complex which is in a dilapidated condition.” Investigations by our correspondent in Abuja have revealed that the FCDA contractors might have perfected necessary arrangement to mobilise men and materials to site to commence the execution of the multibillion naira project. Attempts to speak with the Director of Information, National Assembly management, Rawlings Agada, on the issue failed on Sunday as calls put across to him did not connect. He had also yet to reply the text message sent to him as of the time of filing this report. A management staff member, however, confided in our correspondent that the renovation project would start within the first quarter of the year. He said, “It is better to save lives than to be wasting time fighting against aspects of an appropriation bill that has since been signed into law. Asked if the renovation project would be put on hold due to the suit, he said, “Very soon, the renovation will start once the money is released.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com