Chukwudi Akasike and Sampson Itode A midnight fire outbreak has razed a 22-room building located on Dim Street, Mile 3, Diobu in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, destroying property worth millions of naira. The Thursday night fire was said to have spread across all the rooms of the building before some residents who were fast asleep noticed it. Our correspondents gathered that the majority of the tenants in the massive bungalow had travelled to their villages for the Yuletide celebrations. Residents of the area explained that all the property in the building was burnt before officials of the state fire service arrived to put out the fire. However, no life was lost during the incident as the few tenants in the house were able to escape from the inferno that lasted for about two hours. A resident of the area, who identified himself as Steven, told one of our correspondents on Friday that no property was save during the incident. “It happened at midnight (on Thursday). The few people inside the building did not know about it until the fire spread to many parts of the house. “It was a 22-room compound and all the rooms were burnt. No life was lost as most of the occupants travelled for the Yuletide celebrations. The fire burnt everything. The firefighters came about 30 minutes after the fire started and were not able to bring out anything,” Steven said. Another eyewitness, who gave her name only as Dorcas, explained that the fire proved difficult to control as most residents on the street had gone to bed. She said, “The inferno was much and difficult to control. It entered almost every room and destroyed all the property there because most of them were not around. “There is a restaurant at the front of the compound, but nobody knows where the fire came from. Before the few people there knew what was happening, the fire had spread to every part of the building.” When contacted, the Director, Rivers State Fire Service, Chukwumati John, said the quick intervention of his men to the scene of the inferno helped in curtailing it. John said, “Our men were there at the scene last night to contain the fire and also to prevent it from affecting nearby buildings. If not for our men’s quick response to the distress call, the buildings behind and adjacent would have been affected as well.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 