Anna Okon The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria has described as ridiculous the proposal to renovate the National Assembly complex at a cost of N37bn. The TUC stated this in its Christmas and New Year message, which was jointly signed by the President, TUC, Quadri Olaleye and Secretary General, Musa-Lawal Ozigi. Adding that Nigeria was a country in dire straits that required all hands on deck to get it fixed, the union argued that virtually all policies of government were wrongly placed and benefited nobody at the end. It said, “How do we explain that in a country adjudged to be the poverty capital of the world; a country that lacks basic health facilities, infrastructure and has never spent up to 10 per cent of her annual budget on education, they are talking about spending a whopping N37bn just for National Assembly renovation? “ It is ridiculous and unheard of. “This rub-my-back I rub yours kind of government, mischievously orchestrated by a few negates the tenets of Christianity and humanity.” It pointed out that the Nigerian environment that was supposed to attract development and peace attracted the opposite. It stated, “We are tempted to think that our leaders do not really ponder on God’s love for all at all. An environment devoid of crises attracts development and peace. Ours has been a tale of woes. Joblessness has led a substantial number of the youth into crimes, ranging from kidnapping, robbery to ritual killing and cyber crimes, etc. “The peak is the terrorism and suicide we are being faced with presently. This is not who we are; we need to find our real identity. “We condemn criminality no matter the shade it comes; but it is not enough to do so. What plans does government have in place to give the youths a sense of belonging? We must begin to set our priorities right. If we claim to love God but hate our neighbour we are already in contradiction with ourselves. READ ALSO: Jibrin avoids comments on N37bn NASS renovation budget “We must be willing to give a helping hand to those in need, succour and comfort to the vulnerable. At Christmas, we are expected to spare time to contemplate, and not to dwell on the mundane things of the world. We are strangers on this part of the earth and it is important we live with this consciousness so that when we return home we shall be at peace with ourselves.” TUC also called on Nigerians to remain focused on making Nigeria a better society. It pointed out that said the change the nation craved for could only come, if the citizens, especially the public officers eschew personal interests for national development. It prayed that the “season serves as an end to an incongruous reality, and ushers in a new dawn for respect for the rule of law, human rights and happiness for all.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 