Sampson Itode, P’Harcourt A passenger in a commercial bus escaped death by a whisker on Monday after an empty petrol tanker hit the bus from the rear at the top of a flyover in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. The bus was forced to hit the edge of the 20-feet high bridge, while one of the passengers close to the door jumped out of the vehicle and landed on the ground, shattering one of his legs and sustaining other injuries in the process. The motor boy’s legs were crushed by the vehicle, which swerved and hit the protector wall of the bridge. The accident, it was gathered, happened at the Mile One flyover around 8am after the bus had picked up passengers from a nearby bus stop. An eyewitness, who identified himself simply as Mike, told Southern City News that the two persons, who were most affected, were the motor boy and a middle-aged man, who was sitting close to the vehicle’s door. Mike narrated that the deafening noise from the impact of the tanker’s collision with the bus forced the man to jump out of the vehicle and also down the flyover to the ground. He said, “The motor boy’s right leg was shattered, revealing his bone; both he and the injured passenger were rushed to the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital for urgent medical attention by concerned youths. “We were just under the bridge when we heard a bang from the top of the flyover. The next thing we saw was a man, who fell all the way down from the flyover. His right leg broke and the bone could be seen outside his flesh. He also had smaller injuries all over him. “When we rushed up the flyover, we noticed that a tanker had hit a passenger bus from the rear, which caused the accident. The motor boy of the bus was also affected; he was screaming in pain as both of his legs below his knees were crushed. “We helped to rush both of them to the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital, where they were admitted and are being attended to. “The tanker driver, after realising what he had done, attempted to escape, but he was apprehended by policemen attached to the Mile One Division and detained. The driver of the commercial bus was also detained.” Our correspondent, who visited the scene of the accident, observed the presence of the Federal Road Safety Corps and Nigeria Police Force officials to control traffic and also evacuate the damaged vehicles. An official of the FRSC, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they rushed to the scene of the accident immediately they got wind of it to ensure a free flow of traffic on the bridge and to also evacuate the affected vehicles. The FRSC official, who spoke on condition of anonymity added, “No life was lost to the accident, but two persons were seriously injured and have been taken to hospital. We have also moved all the obstacles from the road to ensure that the road is free. “We have secured a towing truck to remove the bus to the nearby police station.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 