John Ameh, Abuja A former Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Appropriation, Mr Abdulmumin Jibrin, on Tuesday declined to comment on the controversial N37bn budgeted for the renovation of a portion of the National Assembly complex. The renovation will cover only the popular ‘White House,’ which houses the chambers of the Senate, the House of Representatives, some committees’ offices and the office of the Clerk to the National Assembly But, the hitherto vocal All Progressives Congress lawmaker, who is known for opposing ‘budget padding’ and other perceived financial infractions by the legislature, avoided the issue of the N37bn on Tuesday. Jibrin, who is from Kano State, had visited the Presidential Villa, Abuja, for a meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). He had been sacked from the House on November 1 by the Court of Appeal, which also ordered a repeat election in his Bebeji Federal Constituency. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate, Aliyu Datti-Yako, had challenged the outcome of the February 23 poll that saw the Independent National Electoral Commission returning Jibrin as the winner. When State House Correspondents sought his reaction to the N37bn NASS renovation budget, Jibrin said, “You know that right now, I am not a member of the National Assembly. “I am preparing for my rerun election, which has been ordered by the court.” Jibrin, who was in 2016 suspended from the House for 180 legislative days over his budget padding allegation, also denied that he had a rift with the Kano State Governor, Mr Abdullahi Ganduje. Rather, he claimed to have visited Buhari to discuss the President’s achievements in office in 2019. Jibrin said, “I had audience with Mr President to discuss with him all the achievements during the year; to commend him on the progress we have  made in the economy, fight against corruption and the issue of security in the country. “By and large, it’s been a very good year for the President and the government and I think we all have the responsibility to commend him. That’s what we discussed, essentially.” Asked to speak on his rumoured quarrel with Ganduje, he said, “That’s not true. We are working harmoniously and I am sure that the rerun election will be very successful, not only in Kano for the APC, but all over the country where rerun will be held on the 25th. “My relationship with my governor is cordial; he has always been a father and nothing has changed.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 