•Draw ceremony holds in Cairo today ’Tosin Oluwalowo The draws for the qualifying matches for 2022 World Cup in Qatar will take place at the Nile Ritz-Carlton Cairo, Egypt on Tuesday (today). The Super Eagles are seeded in the first pot as one of the top 10 ranked African teams in the latest FIFA ranking. Also in pot 1 with Nigeria are African champions Algeria, Senegal, Tunisia and Morocco. Ghana, Egypt, Cameroon, Mali, DR Congo make up the other top-seeded teams for the draws. With teams seeded in pots one to four, each group will feature one team from each of the pots. This leaves the Eagles avoiding any off the top seeds in the qualifiers. They might however be pitted against other top teams in Africa, who did not make the top seeding. The countries include Ivory Coast, South Africa, Angola and Zambia. While the Ivoirians, South Africa and Zambia are in the second pot, Angola are in port four. Zambia placed second behind Nigeria in Group B of the 2018 World Cup, while South Africa were also second behind Nigeria in the 2010 World Cup qualifiers. South Africa were hosts of the 2010 World Cup and they qualified automatically. Angola edged Nigeria out on head-to-head rule to qualify for the 2006 World Cup in Germany, after both teams had been tied on 21 points at the end of the qualifiers. Pot 2 of the draw has Burkina Faso, Guinea, Uganda, Cape Verde, Gabon, Zambia and Congo. In Pot 3 are Madagascar, Mauritania, Libya, Mozambique, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Niger, Central African Republic, Namibia and Guinea-Bissau. Malawi, Togo, Sudan, Rwanda, Tanzania, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Liberia and Djibouti make up the other teams in pot four. Meanwhile, Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, has said the road to qualifying for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar will not be an easy one. “The way to go to Qatar will be very hard,” he was quoted on Telegraph. “After the draw the work of preparation, scouting and analysis will start immediately. “We expect a very tough fight to be in the last five teams that qualify. But our young team is able to do it. They are progressing from game to game,” Rohr added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    