Peter Dada examines the challenges before Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s bid to return to the Alagbaka Government House this year for a second term The Ondo State electorate will later in the year go to the poll to elect the governor who will run the affairs of the Sunshine State for another four years. The political space in the state is gradually becoming enlivened by the activities of various political parties and aspirants jostling to wrest power from the current occupant of the governorship seat, who himself appears to be interested in retaining the plum job. Although he has not declared his intention publicly, his body language and activities of his aides speak volumes about his intention. The second term will definitely not come to the incumbent governor on a silver platter in the state where Dr Olusegun Mimiko became the first governor to win re-election. While some APC aspirants are eyeing Akeredolu’s job, politicians in the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party are poised to stop the governor from returning to the Government House for another four years. Some other APC members, who have so far shown interest in clinching the sole governorship ticket of the party are:  the immediate past Chairman of the party in the state, Mr Isaacs Kekemeke; a former commissioner in the state, Mr Banji Ayiloge; and  Mr Jimi Odimayo. From the camp of the PDP, the top contenders are: a former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Mr Eyitayo Jegede (SAN);  a former Commissioner for Information, Mr John Mafo; a former Commissioner for Environment, Mr Sola Ebiseni;  the current National Vice Chairman of the party in the South-West, Dr Eddy Olafeso; and a former Chairman of the Ilaje Local Government Area, Mr Banji Okunomo, among others. Although the incumbent governor has some factors that will work in his favour, retaining the seat for another term is likely going to be a very difficult task considering the party’s internal wrangling. The leadership of the ruling party is always quick to dismiss the idea that there is a crisis in the Ondo State chapter of the APC but the lingering issues in the party are a confirmation that all is not well within the ruling party. The governor has parted ways with some of the bigwigs, who supported him in the last election in 2016. The like of the senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District, Prof Ajayi Boroffice; a former deputy governor, Alhaji Ali Olanusi; Kekemeke and many others in the party, have become archenemies of the governor.  In the last three years, some top members of the Ondo APC have not been together. There is even an indication that the governor and his deputy, Mr Agboola Ajayi, are at loggerheads. Owing to the lingering crisis, a source in the party told Saturday PUNCH that Akeredolu might find it difficult to get the ticket of the party because he was not in the good book of the National Chairman of the party, Mr Adam Oshiomhole. The source said, “The governor may likely not get the ticket to contest on the platform of the APC and if he eventually gets it, he may make us to lose the election.  The party is not together and he is doing nothing to unite the aggrieved party members. “He is not on the same page with many party leaders who worked for him in 2016. It was as a result of the division in the party that made the party to lose the 2019 presidential election in the state when he supported the candidates of another party for the National Assembly elections. I wonder if the national leadership of the party has forgiven him totally for the alleged anti-party activities.” In the same vein, it was gathered that the aggrieved party leaders, who have formed a group within the party, named  Ondo APC Unity Forum, under the chairmanship of Olanusi, had concluded plans to fight the governor’s re-election. There are allegations that the group has been making moves to ensure Akeredolu loses the party’s ticket. The crisis had begun during the 2016 governorship election primary when Akeredolu emerged as the candidate of the party. The like of Dr Segun Abraham, Chief Olusola Oke,  Senator Ajayi Boroffice, and some other party chieftains kicked against the outcome of the election. This development was said to have led to the exit of some chieftains from the party while others remained. Some of them, it was learnt, refused to work for Akeredolu during the main election. Akeredolu, after winning the election, was alleged to have vowed to marginalise those that, he believe, did not work for him. He declared during his inauguration that some members would not benefit from his government.  To this end, all efforts by the regional and national leadership of the party to resolve the crisis have yet to yield any fruitful result. A prominent member of the Unity Forum, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, claimed that the group controlled over 75 per cent of the APC members in the state. He added that all the aspirants of the party, except Akeredolu, were members of the group. He boasted that the group would produce the governorship candidate of the party. He said, “Our ultimate aim is to oust Akeredolu, who thinks the APC in the state is his personal property. The Unity Forum has over 75 per cent of the membership of the APC in Ondo State. We are going to decide the candidate of the party.  All the real politicians in the Ondo APC are with us. You will not believe it; some members of the Akeredolu’s cabinet are supporting us underground. “We have reached a point of no return on this issue; we are not ready for any reconciliation again. He is the leader of the party and he has been the one frustrating the reconciliation efforts of the national leaders. We can’t leave the party for him, he should leave for us. When the time comes, we shall know the real owners of the party. Many of us worked for him to become the governor and we have withdrawn our support. “ Some political watchers  are of the opinion that Akeredolu needs to reconcile with the aggrieved party members, otherwise the ruling party may lose the state in the forthcoming governorship election. Another issue Akeredolu may contend with in his re-election bid is the need to reconcile with top members of the national leadership of the party who are said to be unhappy with him over his alleged anti-party activities during the February 2019 general elections. Akeredolu was alleged to have worked for the Action Alliance in the National Assembly elections. To this end,  It was learnt the governor was in the political black book of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole; some members of the party’s National Working Committee, and a few associates of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari ( retd.). Critics believe that unless the governor mends the fence with the national leadership, he may find it difficult to secure the ticket of the party to run for the second term. Capitalising on this, another source in the party claimed that the Unity Forum was lobbying the APC national chairman in Abuja to allow a member of the forum to clinch the governorship ticket. As it is now, the forum is said to be vigorously searching for the best aspirant among them to contest the primary election of the party, coming up later in the year. In the same vein, the cold war between the governor and his deputy, is said to be another perceived impediment to Akeredolu’s aspiration to win the election, even if he eventually secures the ticket of the APC. For some months now, findings revealed that the relationship between Akeredolu and Ajayi had not been rosy but the duo have been able to officially manage the situation. According to a source, Ajayi’s major offence is the allegation that he was making moves to contest the forthcoming governorship election against his boss, on the platform of an opposition party. This was coupled with fake certificate allegation levelled against the deputy governor. Ajayi has, however, denied the allegation in a recent statement saying he had no plan to go into a contest against his boss. He blamed some political detractors for fuelling the crisis. In spite of Ajayi’s defence, it was gathered that many chieftains of the party, particularly those from the Ondo South Senatorial District, were lobbying the governor to replace his deputy. “There are many odds working against Ajayi in this government at the moment. The governor’s wife does not want him, for reason known to her. The crisis is so much that you can never see the wife of the deputy governor in any event organised by Mrs Akeredolu. So, Mrs Akeredolu is not comfortable having Ajayi as her husband’s running mate again,” a source claimed. Some politicians who want to be deputy governor were said to be fuelling the crisis. Some of the governorship aspirants from the Ondo South Senatorial District of the state are allegedly working towards becoming Akeredolu’s running mate if he wins the party’s ticket. As a result, there is a notion that Akeredolu’s political enemies will increase if he bows to pressure to drop his deputy. As a matter of fact, Ajayi ‘s supporters especially in the southern senatorial district are curiously waiting for the time the governor will announce his running mate. It is believed that this group may withdraw their support for the governor and join the forum of aggrieved members. In a reaction, the Deputy Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, attached to the deputy governor, Mr Tope Okeowo, refuted the insinuation that there was a crisis in the government house. He said those who wanted Ajayi out of the government were behind the purported crisis. Okeowo said, “I will like to say that there is no crisis between the governor and his deputy. The deputy too has said it on several occasions that he has no intention to contest the election against the governor but some people are just hell-bent to create crisis between them. “To tell you that there is no crisis, anytime the governor is not around, you will see the deputy representing him. Can that be possible in a situation of crisis? I think some enemies of the state are the one making the people believe there is a crisis, there is nothing like that.” Similarly, the Chairman of the APC in the state, Mr Ade Adetimehin, corroborated Okeowo’s position as he said the party was working in unity and focusing on the next election. “I have been saying it and I will continue to say it that there is no crisis in the Ondo APC, whether between the governor and his deputy or any member of the party. We are together; we are brothers and sisters focusing on the same goal. I am a grass roots mobiliser and we have started mobilising for the party across the state. There is no crisis anywhere,” Adetimehin declared. An analyst and political scientist, Mr Tayo Oluyinka, said there was a need for the governor to stoop to conquer and reconcile all aggrieved members of the party if he wanted an easy ride to the second term. He pointed out that the game of politics was about the number of people and dissent actions against him in the party might have a negative impact on his ambition and the party as a whole, in the next election. “I would blame the governor for allowing the crisis to degenerate to this level. He is the governor and party leader, he should by now settle with the aggrieved members. He should remember that the internal crisis cost them the presidential election in the state. If they continue fighting like this to the election period, all of them would be the losers,” he said. “There is no serious opposition against the APC in Ondo State but they (APC) are their own opposition and if they are not careful, the opposition may capitalise on the crisis and take over the state,” he warned. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com