Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Lagos Bus Services Limited, Mr Idowu Oguntona, has said the agency would collaborate with Lagos Traffic Radio on programmes that would help motorists navigate through traffic in the state. Oguntona made this known when he paid a courtesy visit to Lagos Traffic Radio as part of its policy to collaborate with sister agencies in the transportation industry. He stated that it was part of the efforts to facilitate the THEMES agenda of the present administration in Lagos State. Oguntona said it had become necessary to foster a closer and harmonious business relationship with Lagos Traffic Radio, in order to create a formidable platform, provide necessary support and fashion out programmes and activities that would benefit commuters in the state. According to him, the LBSL was launched by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in May, 2019 to aid movement with the state as approved by LAMATA, the regulatory agency. According to him, the transport service that started operations with 50 buses currently operates 150 buses. “The buses are currently plying seven major routes in the state namely Oshodi-Obalende, Ikeja-Alausa, Berger-Oshodi, Berger-TBS, Berger-Ikeja, Ikeja-Iyana-Ipaja and features  comfortable seats, WI-FI, USB charging ports for all the seats,  air-conditioners and provision for the physically-challenged and aged ones with priority seats,” he said. Oguntona also urged residents of the state to take advantage of the services provided by the LBSL. He stated that patronising such public transport service would help to reduce traffic congestion in line with the goal of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration. The General Manager, Lagos Traffic Radio, Mr Anthony Akanle, commended the decision of the LBSL to partner the firm. He said it had become necessary to facilitate partnerships that would help in designing a regular programme with the LBSL. Akanle stated that commuters would benefit from the products that would be developed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com