Damilola Kasumu, 22, is the CEO of a fashion brand, Mirah.ng. She talks to TOLUWALOPE KAREEM about her business and some of the mistakes made in the Nigeria fashion industry What is your educational background? I studied Human Resource Management at the University of Lagos. Do you have any corporate work experience? Yes, I do. I had my industrial training at an entertainment company called Eclipse Live Africa. I have also worked at an online media company, AsoEbiBella. What led you to fashion designing? I have always considered myself a very fashionable person. I always had a passion for fashion and styling and because of my zeal, I decided to venture into the fashion business. What services do you offer at Mirah.ng? Mirah.ng is a fusion of two of my names– Damilola and Munirah. I love mixing and matching(even with fabrics) and it must reflect on my brand name. It is a women’s wear brand that embodies diversity, style and class. Our bespoke clothing line focuses more on individuality to suit whatever occasion and perfectly tailored outfits with intricate detailing. How long have you been in the business? I started sewing a year ago but I’ve been in business for about six months. What have been the major highlights of the business so far? There have been a lot of highlights for me. The major one is dressing brides and making them happy on their big day. This gives me a lot of joy and satisfaction. What are the major challenges you have faced over the years? The major challenge is electricity, which is a very important factor. Lack of regular electricity means that I have to spend more on petrol to power my generator. Also, there are challenges with clients. Some clients have a low budget but high tastes; they want to make outfits which exceed their budget. However, I still ensure that my customers get the best and are satisfied. Do you have plans to seek paid employment? Not at all; I do not have plans for that. Rather, I hope to provide employment for people through my business. What is your recipe for success? My recipe for success is consistency, drive, hard work and willingness to learn more. Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years? I see myself and my brand at the top of the fashion industry. We are definitely going global. How profitable is the business? It is quite profitable but also very expensive to run. What’s your advice to aspiring fashion designers? My advice to aspiring designers (and also myself) is to keep doing their thing. Be consistent and hardworking, and avoid copying other designers’ works. Do you think the Nigerian fashion industry is competing globally? The Nigerian fashion Industry has definitely attracted global attention. The numerous fashion shows in the country, such as Lagos Fashion Week and Arise Fashion Week have put the Nigerian fashion industry on the global map. We can see our designers working with international artists and designers. Although we still have some challenges in the industry, the sector has grown a lot. What mistakes should fashion designers avoid to remain relevant in the industry? Some of the mistakes they should avoid are plagiarism and repetition. I feel every designer should have his or her own style. Most times, designers just recreate other people’s designs, and that is bad for business. Fashion designers should be able to create their own styles and avoid doing the same thing over and again. People always want something new and fresh; not the same thing they’ve been getting for years. How do you select fabrics? That’s my favourite part of production. Sourcing for fabrics is something I can do even in my sleep. It is a whole process that depends on what outfit one wants to make and sometimes, I let the fabric decide what I want to make. A whole lot goes into picking fabrics– the texture, right colour shade, among other things. What do you do for leisure? I love to watch movies, get enough sleep and create designs. How would you describe your style? My style is very versatile but mostly girly. You would definitely catch me wearing outfits with exaggerated sleeves. What do you think makes you different from other fashion designers out there? My brand embodies diversity, style and class. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com