Bola Bamigbola A former Governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande, has described as arrant nonsense the idea of independence for local government areas in the country. Akande spoke in his Ila Orangun residence at a press conference held to mark his 81st birthday anniversary on Thursday. The ex-interim national chairman of the All Progressives Congress said Nigeria’s federation was confusing, adding that in federating states globally, only two tiers are recognised. He said apart from the central government, ‘‘the only tier of government recognised is a federating unit.’’ He said, “In any federalism all over the world, in Canada, in Australia, it is only two tiers of government, which are the central government and the federating units. “When you talk of local government autonomy, you are talking about another tier of government. So, one must be abolished.” On his position on Operation Amotekun, Akande said the position of the Federal Government bordered on law. He, however, added that self-defence remained the best line of defence, warning that self-defence must be done in line with the culture of the law of the land. Akande said he was already reaching out to the stakeholders in the region on the best way to resolve issues surrounding Amotekun. READ ALSO: Yoruba’ll rise against govs if they dump Amotekun – Adebanjo He said, “Self-defence is the best form of defence. When you are inside your house, you hold it with passion. Any intruder should be dealt with. But when it involves other people, it has to be done with the culture of the law of the land. “It been 17 years since I left government, the law might have change. Amotekun ought to be a Yoruba affairs and I don’t discuss such issues publicly. I am already discussing with those that understand the meaning of Amotekun and I believe it would be resolved.” On his assessment of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, (retd.), Akande said the military leader was now a democrat, after learning over the years the democratic ways of handling state matters. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 