SUNDAY ABORISADE examines the importance of an alternative source of income for politicians as a means of reducing corruption and desperation among those seeking to retain public offices at all cost The disengagement of Dr Muiz Banire from the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria, where he held sway as the chairman, recently brought into fore the essence of an alternative source of income for political office holders in the country. Banire, in his reaction to his replacement with Mr Edward Adamu, described his removal from office by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), as a relief and an opportunity for him to concentrate on his personal business and family. The former national legal adviser of the All Progressives Congress said that the news of the abrupt termination of his five-year renewable tenure got to him while in London, in the middle of a crash education programme. Banire said he did not really consider his removal from office after one year as a ‘big deal’, but expressed surprise that some of his close associates did not see the development from the same perspective. He noted with concern that the negatively interesting aspect of his removal was the lamentations by some friends and associates who probably had a disconnect between the purpose of service and the relief that naturally accompanies the disengagement of an appointee with an alternative contact address. He revealed how he was disturbed with complaints and murmurs by some people who read lots of insinuations into his removal and were apparently in a mourning mood, as if disengagement from a political appointment was tantamount to bereavement. Official and unofficial interactions between Sunday PUNCH and many federal lawmakers,  who were not re-elected into the 9th National Assembly, revealed that majority of them have what is known in the Nigeria political parlance as  ‘alternative addresses’ and are managing their income to take care of their immediate needs. For instance, it was observed that apart from controlling chains of businesses before, during and after his exit from the Senate in 2019, Senator Adesoji Akanbi, who represented Oyo South Senatorial District, has opened a media outfit in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Similarly, the Senator who represented Zamfara Central up till the 8th National Assembly, Kabiru Marafa, recently returned to the country after completing an academic programme at the Harvard University. He is at the moment busy with his chain of businesses which he had established ever before he won an election into the Senate. Also, the Senator who represented Kaduna North Senatorial District, Suleiman Hunkuyi, had also returned to his chain of businesses, which he established before his election into the red chamber until he left in 2019. The Senator, who represented Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the 8th National Assembly, Shehu Sani, told our correspondent in an interview that he established a centre the moment he could not secure re-election into the red chamber in 2019. Sani said, “I have established a centre called African Centre for Peace and Development. I also have a sister centre called African Freedom Foundation.  These centres are think-tanks and advocacy platforms for good governance, rule of law, peace and development advocacy in Nigeria and the whole of the African continent. “We have with us, a resource-base of intellectuals from different universities across the country.  We did our formal introduction about a month ago and our programmes will take off in the next few days.” The senator, who represented Oyo South Senatorial District in the 7th Senate, Olufemi Lanlehin, has equally returned to his legal practice apart from some businesses he was running before his election into the red chamber. Speaking with our correspondent on the importance of politicians having an alternative source of income apart from politics, the Senator who represented Ondo South Senatorial District in the 7th National Assembly, Boluwaji Kunlere, said it was the best way to minimise desperation and greed. He said former President Olusegun Obasanjo had warned the Peoples Democratic Party leaders when he was in office to see politics as a call to service instead of a full-time job. Kunlere said, “This is not the first time that the issue would come up. Former President Obasanjo advised a long time ago that politicians should look for an alternative address. It is good advice and it cannot be far from the truth. At that time, because of the level of desperation, with people looking for appointments or seeking elective offices, they started selling their property and other valuables to get into public offices. “As the President then, Obasanjo saw the desperation on the part of the politicians and he advised them. Some of us were even joking that there were so many addresses, including the functional and the non-functional ones.’’ Kunlere said some wise politicians heeded Obasanjo’s advice by going into farming and other businesses. He said those who did that were able to fall back on their investments when they lost elections or when their appointments were not renewed. The Senator, however, said having alternative addresses as politicians was not enough, adding that politicians should also be wary of their ways of life so that they would be able to live within their means. He said, “The problem with many politically exposed persons is how to cope with the expectations of the people around them. Many people still look up to politicians who are no longer in public offices for survival. “Apart from having alternative addresses, politicians must also know how to manage what they have. For instance, it is not compulsory that they must fly first class. The only difference between first class and business class is the exotic wines they serve the former which one could afford at home, anyway. “To avoid pressure or tension from the people around them when out of office, politicians should avoid flamboyant lifestyles. Their extravagant ways of life even out of office would put pressure on them from families, friends and associates.” Kunlere stressed the need to address the issue of alternative address so that governors who were finding it difficult to pay salaries would not find it convenient to bribe the electorate and buy guns for thugs in order to sabotage electoral processes to their advantage. In his reaction, the Executive Director, YIAGA Africa, Mr Samson Itodo, noted that politics should not be seen as a vocation but service and that only those who have businesses and had led reputable institutions should be saddled with the responsibility of leading the people. He said, “One of the nation’s political challenges is the do-or-die nature of our politics. That is why I will continue to push for politicians to have alternative addresses in order to reduce desperation from them.” He noted that there was a gross deficiency in understanding what leadership is about among the politicians. He said most people see leadership from the primitive and myopic point of accumulating wealth. He said politicians aspire to run for office not because they want to provide excellent leadership but are preoccupied with how to capture political power to satisfy their selfish and primordial objectives. Itodo said, “That is why people will kill just because they want to get political power. But if we reduce their access to state resources and the perks of their offices including the jumbo pay, they will reduce the desperation to secure public office at all costs. “We need to know the background of those who are aspiring to be public office holders. We should know the organisations they have led and the position they had held, even in the private sector because leadership is earned, not born. “It is unfortunate that we have people who just depend on politics as a means of livelihood. That is why they could do anything including sycophancy and violence, to remain in office.” Also, the Executive Secretary, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Musa Rafsanjani, argued that the best way to minimise desperation and violence in the electoral process was to ensure that those seeking public offices already had means of livelihood. He said their sources of income must be verifiable, and should contain their contribution to the nation in their private capacity. Rafsanjani said, “Many of the politicians do not have verifiable means of livelihood. So, they come into offices and squander public funds. Many of them cannot account for the resources they are given on trust.” He explained that situations where fresh graduates with no leadership experience were encouraged to contest public offices and remain there for years probably because he or she had a political godfather, was not healthy for the nation’s democracy. He said, “That is why people hold public offices for four years without anything to show apart from extravagance and wealth accumulation at the detriment of the electorate. This is not good for democracy because holding public office is not a licence for looting.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com