Afeez Hanafi Two passengers have lost their lives in a separate road crash on Lagos-Ibadan and Ijebu-Ore-Benin expressways, Ogun State. It was learnt that six persons sustained injuries in the two lone crashes involving eight persons. The state Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Mr Clement Oladele, in a statement on Friday, said the accidents occurred on Thursday. He said two persons were injured in a third crash that day at Ogere end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. It was said that a truck suspected to be speeding rammed into another truck parked along the road. The two injured victims were said to have been moved to Victory Hospital, Ogere, for treatment. Oladele stated that one of the lone crashes involved a white Nissan Urvan bus with the number plate, FST907XY whose tyre burst as a result of excessive speeding. “Two persons were involved, both male adults. One of them sustained injuries but the other victim died from the injuries he sustained. The injured victim was rescued to the General Hospital, Ijebu-Ode, while the corpse of the killed victim was deposited at FEMTOP Hospital Mortuary, Ijebu-Ode,” the FRSC boss said. Oladele blamed the second lone crash which occurred at Ayobo, Ogunmakin area of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on dangerous overtaking. “Six persons were involved, comprising three male adults, two female adults and a child. Five persons, including the child, sustained injuries while one death was recorded from the crash. The lone crash involved an ash coloured Toyota Previa bus with registration number, LND929GL. “The injured victims were rescued to Victory Hospital, Ogere and Babcock University Teaching Hospital, Ilisan, Remo, for medical attention. The corpse of the dead victim was deposited at FOS Morgue, Ipara, near Ogere,” he added. The sector commander advised motorists to drive cautiously and obey extant traffic rules and regulations. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com