Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt The Rivers State Police Command has said that it was not worried about the plan of the military to withdraw from strategic points in all the states across the country, saying it was prepared to protect residents of the state. Recall that the Federal Government had during a security council meeting presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.), decided that the military would pull out from ongoing internal security operations in various parts of the country, starting from the first quarter of 2020. But the State Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Nnamdi Omoni, explained that the withdrawal of the military from internal security operations in Rivers would only buoy the Police to improve in carrying out its core mandate of securing the state. Omoni, who spoke in an interview with our correspondent on Wednesday, explained that with measures put in place by the State Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Dandaura, the officers and men of the Command were equal to the task of securing the state despite the decision of the Federal Government. He said, “As far as we are concerned, the police are the lead agency in internal security and by virtue of that fact, we are equal to the task; we are not overwhelmed and we are not helpless. We are prepared for the task ahead. “We are prepared to carry out that responsibility with consummate professionalism. If the military wants to disengage, it is much better for us because we will take over and do what the law allows us to do in the circumstance. We will even do better. READ ALSO: Operation Lafiya Dole troops to enjoy better welfare in 2020 – Buratai “That the military plans to pull out of strategic points across the country is not something to worry about. We have been fighting criminals and bringing them down with or without the military. All security agencies have their specific responsibilities and we have been complementing each other. “With the deployments on the roads and checkpoints at strategic places; these are crime control measures and we are ready to execute them with utmost professionalism.” The PPRO dismissed the belief in some quarters that criminals were afraid of daring the military, but would have their way with the police. Omoni said, “That assumption is neither here nor there; it just exists in the mind of those who hold such imagination. The police and the military are all armed and we both have firearm skills. What is important is that we are ready to discharge our core mandate of policing the environment and dealing with all criminal elements. In all security agencies, we have a common role to fight our common enemies.” On the improved security in Rivers State, Omoni added, “The level of insecurity has gone down and this is because of the proactive measures put in place by the current Commissioner of Police in the state, CP Mustapha Dandaura. “He came with a magic wand that has changed the narrative by putting officers on their toes. He did not come to Rivers State for a tea party. He was deployed from Anambra to Rivers State to do what he knows best to do and he has justified that purpose by living up to expectations.”