Amaechi Uzohma is in police detention for the alleged murder of Sergeant Ifiobor Collins. Uzohma tells SIMON UTEBOR about the incident Where are you from? I am from Aboh, near Kwale in Delta State. I am 26 years old. I have two daughters. I attended Coker Memorial Primary School, Ogba, Lagos, and Stadium Grammar School, Surulere, Lagos. Why did you kill Sergeant Collins? I don’t know much about him but I heard that he was one of the policemen that was killed at Ifako Ijaiye. What do you know about the attack on their patrol team? I did not attack him. The name of the person that attacked him is Tunde Ajadi. I don’t know if Ajadi is his surname or his nickname. Who is Tunde to you? We are friends. Did you have any issue with Collins? I didn’t have any issue with him. I did not even know him. One man in our area, Shina, who is  popularly known as Baba Ramadan, died. I was coming back from the house where I had gone to meet my wife and children. As I was coming, I got to Ogba bus stop and I met one of my friends, Kabir. I asked him why the area was so quiet and he asked if I did not hear that Baba Ramadan was dead. I asked what happened. He said the police wounded him and that he later died. So I asked about his corpse and he said the corpse was in the General Hospital, Ikeja. READ ALSO: Gunmen kill two in fresh Southern Kaduna attack He said some people had gone to the hospital to get the corpse. I asked Kabir if he was going to the hospital to bring the corpse and he said yes. On our way there, we met the people that went to bring the corpse. I was inside a different Keke Marwa with Kabir. We saw the people that went to get the corpse –they did not even know that we were coming. When they got to Haruna bus stop, they started pursuing the police team at the junction. As they started pursuing the policemen, I came down from the tricycle. I saw Tunde pursuing one policeman and asked him to stop. But soon, I started hearing gunshots. I ran back and got inside another tricycle, to continue with my journey. After that time, I did not see Tunde again. When we got to the place to bury the man, suddenly some policemen arrived in some vans, and started shooting. I was hit in the leg by one of the shots. That is what I know about it. What happened after you were shot? After I was hit, the people in the community took me away. I went to treat myself at the hospital. After some time, I returned to the area; that was when policemen from Area G arrested me, saying I was the one who killed the policeman. I told them I was not the one and that I knew nothing about it. You were said to have snatched the policeman’s rifle after killing him, where is the rifle now? I neither killed the policeman nor snatched his rifle. Apart from the policeman, how many other people have you killed before? I have not killed anybody before. I don’t know anything about how people kill. I don’t even know how to kill a chicken let alone human being. I am innocent. Now that you have been arrested in connection with the murder of the cop, what would be your defence? They should cooperate with me to go and get the main culprit. But I have only seen him once since I came back to area. But you were there when he shot the policeman? No. But you said you knew Tunde who shot and killed the policeman… We live in that same area. I was at the junction calling the guy when I saw him pursuing the policeman. How prepared are you to face the music? I did not kill him. I am innocent of this charge. Are you saying they are telling lies against you? All I know is that I did not kill anybody. That I killed the policeman is a lie, I did not kill him. I was not among those who attacked the police van. I was inside a tricycle. I was in the area but I was not among those that attacked the police van. The incident happened like a riot and everybody was running helter-skelter for their dear lives. I went to treat myself of the gunshot wounds I sustained when the police came to the burial of that man. As a murder suspect, are you prepared to pay the ultimate price for your action? No. I know nothing about the death of the policeman. People should help me out of this problem. Between being jailed or killed, which would you prefer? I do not know what to say because I am innocent. I regret joining them for the burial. If I knew it was going to be like this, I wouldn’t have joined them. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Police, family disagree over mechanic’s death in custody If you are taken to court, what would be your prayer? I will pray that they should forgive me because I know nothing about it. But you agreed you were there, how would say you know nothing about it? I just followed them to get the corpse. I did not know they were going to start a riot there. I did not join them in the riot. But you said the person that killed the policeman is your friend… Yes, the person that killed him is my friend. The one that also died was my friend. You are a friend to the person who killed and the person they killed. Some people will say you are not telling the whole truth… I was not part of the gang that attacked the police van. I am not among those people that attacked the police. If you are not part of the gang that attacked the police, which gang do you belong to? I am not an armed robber. I was a member of a confraternity in 2012. The time I started it, I had no children but since I had my baby in 2017, I stopped being a member of the Eiye cult. I stopped it since my first daughter was born. Since then, I have not had anything to do with them because I have found out that there is no gain in belonging to cults. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com