Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri The Peoples Democratic Party in Imo state on Sunday said that the Supreme Court was destroying the country’s democracy with its Tuesday judgment which sacked Emeka Ihedioha and declared Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress as the duly elected governor of the state. The PDP publicity secretary in the state, Damian Opara, said that the justices of the apex court had ” ridiculed and annihilated democracy ” by sacking Ihedioha from office. Describing the judgment as ” provocative ” and at variance with the tenets of the law, the PDP spokesperson said that the jurists arbitrarily awarded votes to Uzodinma, when the APC did not win a single seat at the state’s House of Assembly when the elections held the same day. Describing the judgment as “infamous”, the main opposition party said that it did not agree with the verdict of the supreme court justice as it concerned the state’s governorship debacle. It, therefore, urged its supporting members to remain law-abiding, saying that the apex court increased the valid votes in favour of the APC. He said ” In the wake of the infamous judgment of the Supreme Court on the Imo State gubernatorial election petition, the State Executive Council of State’s chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party met and thoroughly examined the atrocious judgment that removed Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as Governor and Hon. Gerrald Irona as Deputy Governor of Imo State. “Arising from the meeting on Friday, January 17th, 2019, the party described as unbelievable, ridiculous and annihilation of democracy, the decision of the apex court to void the lawful election of its candidate, His Excellency Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha (CON) who polled 276,404 votes and awarded victory to Sen. Hope Uzodimma of the APC, with just 96,458 votes. “The party in the state finds it difficult to understand how the Supreme Court arrived at its verdict, even to the point that the seven panellists who sat on the petition gave a unanimous judgment. “The party noted that It is on record that the Total Accredited Votes as declared by INEC stood at 823,743, with Total Votes cast and Total Votes cancelled amounting to 739,485 and 25, 130 respectively, while Total Valid Votes remained 714,355. “The Supreme Court increased the Total Valid Votes to 950,952 which accounts for 127, 209 votes in excess of Total Accredited Votes of 823,743. “The apex court unilaterally manufactured votes from 388 units where INEC rightly did not turn in results for obvious reasons such as violence and electoral malpractice and awarded the same to Senator Hope Uzodinma/APC. “It is shocking that the Supreme Court by its judgment said that all the votes from the alleged 388 polling units were for the APC alone, in an election that was contested by over 60 candidates. “Even where the Supreme Court awarded all extra 127, 209 accredited votes it manufactured to Senator Hope Uzodinma/APC, it was not enough to make him the winner of the March 9 election. It will be 223,657 votes, still less than Ihedioha and PDP’s votes of 276,494, with a difference of 42,747 votes. ” The party further questioned the rationale of the Supreme Court in declaring Senator Uzodinma winner of a gubernatorial election that simultaneously held with that of the State Assembly [both having one accreditation] in which the APC did not win any of the 27 available seats in the Imo State House of Assembly whereas PDP won 13, AA won 8, and APGA won 6. “The PDP Imo State Chapter, therefore, resolved that it does not agree with the judgment, as it is unfair, unjust and provocative. ” However, the Party advised her teeming supporters to remain law-abiding in the face of this adversity and extreme provocation. “The Party in the state also urged its members to be united, resilient and be more committed to the party in this trying moment.”