Peter Dada, Akure As the resident doctors at the University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital, Akure, Ondo State capital began an indefinite strike,  the patients at the hospital have appealed to the government to accede to the demands of the angry doctors for the sake of their health of the people. The doctors under the auspices of the Residents Doctors of the UNIMEDTH on Friday began the strike on Friday, in protest against non-payment of their six months salaries by their, employer, the state government. The Chairman Media Committee of the Residents Doctors of UNIMEDTH, Dr Olagbe Taiwo had vowed that the strike would not end until the government met all their demands, which bothered on the welfare of the doctors. He said over 150 doctors were affected. During a visit to the hospital complex in Akure, on Saturday, it was observed that none of the resident doctors was on duty while some patients were lamenting their (doctors) absence. It was however observed that only consultants and nurses were on duty to attend to hundreds of patients. A relative of a patient on admission at the emergency ward of the hospital, who identified herself as Mrs Oluwole lamented that the strike of the resident doctors was already having effects on the patients as there were no doctors to attend to the patients. She said, “We have only consultants working but their number can not attend to the patients that are here. Some patients at the emergency ward, for example, need frequent attention of the doctors but very few of the consutltants come seldom. We appeal to the state government to answer them ( the striking doctors) before the situation gets worse ” Mr Oluchukwu, who is an outpatient said it was unfortunate for the government to owe doctors such amount of salary. He said he wanted to see one of the resident doctors but could not see him due to the strike. ” If after some days the situation persists, I won’t have any option than to go to a private hospital to continue my treatment,” he stated. A consultant, who spoke on condition of anonymity, also told our correspondent that they came to the hospital to rescue the situation. He also confirmed that the number of consultants available could not attend to all the patients. He appealed to the government and the striking doctors to dialogue and resolve the matter so that the doctors would return to work. When contacted the State Commissioner for Health, Dr Wahab Adegbenro, said the aggrieved doctors have not held the state to ransom due to the strike. He, however, said efforts were ongoing to resolve the crisis.