Samuel Awoyinfa The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said his administration will boost industrialisation by constructing production centres and innovation hubs in Edo Central and Edo North Senatorial Districts of the state. He said this would not only boost production but also other economic activities in the districts. This was contained in a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, a copy of which was made available to our correspondent. Obaseki said the hubs, which were a replication of Benin Production and Innovation centres in Edo South Senatorial District, would serve as engines to unlock the economic growth of the state. The governor, who assured that construction work in the Benin Industrial Park would commence early this year, reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to actualising the aspirations of Edo people to live in a just, fair, productive and progressive state. Obaseki said, “I want to assure you, fellow citizens that we will not relent in our efforts at infrastructural renewal, industrialisation, and social development programmes, which we are currently undertaking across the entire state. “We are committed to fixing our roads, rebuilding schools, facilitating expansion of existing businesses and ensuring a vibrant, boisterous state that we will all be proud to be associated with.” He added, “This year, we are doubling our efforts to surpass the set target of 200,000 jobs, which I promised in 2016 as we intend to deepen our relationship with local and international partners to create more opportunities for our youths. “On the back of the success from the Innovation Hub and Production centres, we will build similar hubs and centres in Edo North and Edo Central. Construction work in the Benin Industrial Park will commence early this year.” While he noted that electricity was critical to attaining these goals, he said his administration was exploring all options available to make electricity available to the citizens. He added, “This is why we supported the 55MW CCTEC-Ossiomo Power Plant which should be commissioned this year. Some of the electricity will be purchased directly to power street lights, government buildings and industrial clusters. “The Benin Production Centre hosts hundreds of artisans and Small and Medium Enterprise operators, who are provided with a serene work environment and access to shared infrastructure, 24-hour electricity, security, water supply, Internet, and access to low cost loans.” He added that the Edo Innovation Hub, a cluster for technology innovators and inventors, would strengthen the state’s technology innovation scene. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com