Peter Dada, Akure A man identified as Sunday Olugboye lost his life, while some others sustained varying degrees of injury in a fatal accident that occurred in Ikare Akoko, the headquarters of the Akoko North-East Local Government Area of Ondo State on Tuesday. It was gathered that the crash involved a truck, a Toyota Camry car, a Volkswagen Golf car and two motorcycles. According to an eyewitness, the truck driver lost control and rammed the vehicle into the cars, which were parked by the roadside. The driver of the Toyota Camry car was said to have been killed on the spot, while other occupants of the car and the two motorcyclists were injured. The eyewitness stated, “The truck belongs to Dangote and ran over the cars, while the two motorcyclists were trapped together with the driver of the Toyota Camry car. “The injured occupants of the car were immediately rushed to the Ondo State Specialist Hospital, Ikare Akoko. “It took the men of the FRSC and good Samaritans several hours to remove the trapped driver from the mangled car.” Commenting on the development, the Ikare Akoko Unit Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Mr Yinka Akande, attributed the accident to brake failure on the part of the truck. He warned motorists against excessive speed, especially during the festive season, urging them to put their vehicles in good conditions before embarking on journeys. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Femi Joseph, confirmed the accident and said the truck driver ran away. “We have commenced an investigation into the matter and we are already on the trail of the fleeing driver,” Joseph stated. The PPRO added that the corpse of the deceased had been deposited in the morgue of the Ondo State Specialist Hospital, Ikare Akoko, while the injured had been treated and discharged. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 