Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe A Lagos-based make-up artist, Johnson Obazele, was on Wednesday, assaulted by suspected cultists in the Kujore area of Ojota for refusing to stop when he was ordered to do so. It was gathered that Obazele, who was seeing off a friend, who visited him, was ordered to stop by the suspected cultists and was attacked when he and his visitor refused to stop. PUNCH Metro learnt that while the cultists attacked Obazele, his friend managed to escape and called for help. Obazele told PUNCH Metro that he was surprised that the suspected cultists attacked him and his guest as he had never had an altercation with them before. He said, “I was seeing off one of the boys working as a freelancer in my studio to the bus stop around 10pm and four buildings away from my house, we were ordered to stop by some boys. “When they asked us to stop, I told my visitor to keep walking because I didn’t know why they ordered us to stop since I never had any conversation with them before, even though they live on the street. “When we did not stop, one of them asked if we did not hear that we were asked to stop and when my visitor wanted to stop, I told him to keep walking and one of the boys slapped him and when I tried to confront them on why they slapped someone they did not know, two of the guys attacked me and started beating me. “I had to tell my visitor to run home and call my neighbours as the people around were just looking at us, and by the time my neighbours came and separated us, I was already soaked in my own blood. “The people around the place started begging the guys to calm down and I was wondering why they would beg them as I was the one who was intimidated, but I was told to let go and that I should  treat myself, because the guys were cultists and they could do anything. “Fortunately, I know one of them; so, I went to report at the Area ‘H’ Police Station around 12am, but the IPO said it was too late that I should come back in the day time; so, I went to hospital to get treated and I went back to the station this morning (Thursday) and the police followed me to arrest the one I knew. We were also able to arrest another guy, who injured me, but their leader is on the run after he heard of the arrest of his members.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident, said two suspects had been arrested for obstruction, while the main suspects were on the run. “We are investigating the matter; our team went to arrest the guys, but they were not found except for two boys, who tried to obstruct our men.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 