Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki An Ebonyi State Magistrates’ Court, on Friday, remanded a 26-year-old man, Christian Nweke, in a correctional facility for beheading a two-year-old boy, Onyedikachi Nwali. The suspect, Southern City News gathered, allegedly beheaded the two-year-old boy and drank his blood, while the mother went to fetch water from the stream. It was learnt that the suspect, who confessed to the crime, was a barber in Onitsha, Anambra State, and was allegedly suffering from chest pains, until he was brought to the Church of Christ Mission, Ugbaenyim Ezza, Umuhuali community, in the Ishielu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, where the boy and his parents were seeking spiritual help. Asked if he was a ritualist or sent to kill and suck the blood of the boy for money rituals, the suspect said, “No. I’m not a ritualist. Nobody sent me to kill anybody. But I noticed that since the prophetess of this prayer ministry prayed for me, a lot of things have changed and I no longer reason right.” It was alleged that the suspect committed the crime on December 13, 2019, at the premises of the Church of Christ Mission, Ugbaenyim Ezza. He was, on Friday, arraigned before the magistrates’ court on one count of murder. The police prosecutor, Sergeant Sebastine Alumona, said the offence was punishable under Section 319 (1) of the Criminal Code, Cap. 33, Vol. 1, Laws of Ebonyi State of Nigeria, 2009. The defence counsel applied to the court that his client be admitted to bail as he would not interfere with lawful investigation into the matter. READ ALSO: Three feared killed during protest over Oyo market fire Alumona, however, opposed the bail application and told the court that the suspect would jump bail and interfere with investigation into the matter. In her ruling, Chief Magistrate Nnenna Onuoha, said the court lacked the jurisdiction to grant bail on such cases. She directed that the accused be remanded in the Nigerian Correctional Centre, Abakaliki, while his case file should be transferred to the Director of Public Prosecutions in the state for advice. She adjourned the matter till January 17, 2020, for the report of compliance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 