Yemi Ayeni, 27, is an Executive  Director at Yem-Kem International Nigeria Limited. He gives an insight into his career to TOLUWALOPE KAREEM What can you recall of your childhood? I am the first of five children. Therefore, a lot was expected of me. I grew up in a very traditional Yoruba home with traditional values and I had strict parents who expected the best from one. They always expected us to be of best behaviour. I wouldn’t say I was born with a silver spoon but I was privileged to experience both sides of life with my dad trying to get his business up and running and successful. I also experienced the other side of life when things became better. What is your educational background? I had my elementary education at St Benedict Nursery and Primary School, Lagos. For my secondary education, I attended British International School, Victoria Island, Lagos, before moving to Bridge House College, Ikoyi, where I did a foundation programme. I went on to obtain a degree in Business Economics from University of Leicester, UK. I also attended International Business School for a Master in International Business. Shortly after, I got another Master’s in Business Management. What were your childhood aspirations? As a child, one had many ambitions; it kept changing. At a young age, my father involved us in his business. We used to go with him to the office and the factory. So, while growing up, I knew that whatever I wanted to study or do in life had to be in line with my dad’s business. Initially, I wanted to study medicine. At a point, I moved to IT and settled for Business Economics because I saw that the model of business we have now needs expertise in that aspect. Can you give us an insight into your career trajectory? So far so good, I have done a lot of things related to the Yem-Kem Group. We don’t only deal in health products, we have the hospitality side of our business and many other things. Right now, my own vision is to take the brand to an international standard. What do you think are the major requirements for building a good corporate image? Most importantly, the company needs to have integrity. There’s nothing as good as good will. If you mention the name of a brand and people testify to how good it is, they would have trust in whatever the company produces. One has to make sure that one does not relent on quality. The chairman of my company, who is also my dad, always pressed it on me while growing up that one should never toy with quality. Make sure you give the best to people. Also, one needs to have the best hands and minds to create ideas and execute those ideas, because one person cannot do it all. What are some of the business tips you learnt from your father? I was trained by my father on how to consult with patients. As regards the factory, I usually witnessed the process of production and picked some things. I also learnt from him to be humble, respectful and have integrity. What are the major challenges you face? For a company like ours where we pride ourselves on quality, we do not tamper with our products. Perhaps, because of the poor state of the economy, many Nigerians go for the cheapest things. And because the market is poorly regulated, there are so many cheap fake products out there. We are made to compete with people making substandard products. What does success mean to you? Success, to me, is about making quality impact that would outlive one. The person who made electricity isn’t alive but people are still enjoying its usefulness. It is basically about leaving something behind for the next generation to benefit from. What are the steps you took to achieve success? One needs to be passionate about what one is doing and also be dedicated, regardless of the barriers faced. I am also disciplined. If one is disciplined, it would help one to achieve success. What advice do you have for young people? They have to be dedicated, determined, disciplined and patient. Though they may see people buying expensive things now, it doesn’t mean they wouldn’t be able to afford those things if they are diligent with their work. There are many problems in Nigeria, so one needs to identify those problems and find how it can be solved. How do you relax? I work hard but I also like to play. I like to eat out and have drinks with friends. I also like to watch football games and movies. I research a lot too, I like to read up on Nigerian history. I also like to travel. How do you like to dress? I tend to do a mixture of everything available. On days when I’m going to work, I dress formally. And on weekends, I wear T-shirts and jeans or traditional attire. Above all, something very simple and comfortable. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com