Patrick Odey,Uyo Protesting youths  insist they will  not leave    the premises of the Akwa Ibom State-owned  Ibom Power Plant  until the company guarantees their community power supply. The youths  from   Ikpa Ibekwe community in the Ikot Abasi Local Government Area of  the state, who on January 13 blocked the entrance to the company in Ikot Abasi with eight human corpses in  protest  against non-supply of electricity for 15 years in the area,  told the firm to restore power supply immediately. The President-General of Mboho Ikot Abasi, Ufot Enoidem,   who spoke to  our correspondent on  Monday, condemned  the company for  allegedly not showing interest in the plight of the people of the  area. He said, “Our youths have vowed not to leave the premises of the power plant until  electricity  is restored to the community. “The gate of the company is still under lock and key as we speak. The youths are there, students are there, market women are there parading round the company. They are insisting that for them to leave, the company  should first restore electricity. “Can you imagine that since the agitation began last week  Monday,  none of the company’s  senior official has deemed it necessary to address the youths. The chairman of the power plant is there, the MD is there, the board members are there.” However,  the power plant firm said the  Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company  should be  blamed for the  power outage in  the community. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, the chairman of  the firm, Etido Inyang, said the PHED had cut off power from Ikpa Ibekwe clan in Ikot Abasi since in 2018. He said the state government had been making efforts  to build  a substation in  the council to help the people. The Managing Director, Mr Mayen Etukudo, said  the  power plant could  only generate power but could not  distribute. Etukudo  said only  the Transmission Company of Nigeria  had the sole responsibility to distribute electricity in the country. He said  Governor Udom Emmanuel had  paid PHED N5m out of the  N55m allegedly owed it by the community and ordered that the area should be supplied electricity. Etukudo however said until the corpses used  by the protesters   to barricade the entrance to the company  were  removed, the workers would not be able to  resume work. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com