Deji Lambo Residents of the Ashamu Estate in Oke-Afa, Ejigbo Local Council Development Area of Lagos State, have accused the Ikeja Electric of extortion and outrageous billing. According to the residents, the bills given to power consumers by the IE do not reflect their actual consumption as the charges are often increased intermittently. The residents reiterated their position that the electricity distribution company should supply them prepaid meters so that they could be in control of their power consumption. A landlord in the estate, Isa Bakare, said the IE charged him N120,000 for four prepaid meters, alleging that when he wanted to pay, the officials deceived him to pay into the individual meters’ accounts and the prepaid meters would be provided. He, however, noted that the prepaid meters were not provided as the firm converted the money to the payment for consumption charges. Bakare stated, “It was a fraudulent act and I feel bad about it. I used to receive N13,000 bill monthly, but it has increased to N30,000. When some of the residents went to the IE office, we were told to apply for prepaid meters as a group. I once applied as an individual and I was defrauded by officials of the IE. “I had an outstanding payment of N30,000 and I was charged N120,000 for four prepaid meters. I wanted to pay the N150,000 for the prepaid meters and to clear my outstanding bill, but I was told to load the money into my account so  that they could remove the money for the prepaid meters from it. After funding my account, the firm increased my energy charge to N30,000 and was removing that amount every month until the money in the account was exhausted. I have receipts for the N150,000 and I want prepaid meters.” The owner of a guest house in the estate, Kunle Ariyo, said he also paid for prepaid meters but they were never supplied. Ariyo stated, “The energy charge is just too much. Sometime last year, I was paying N10,000 monthly for my guest house; later it increased to N15,000, then to N35,000 and for December, I was billed N75,000. “I have complained to the marketer to give me prepaid meter, but no prepaid meter was supplied. I was also told to pay N100,000 out of my arrears so that the prepaid meter could be supplied in two weeks, but it has not been provided. I paid the money a year ago. I want prepaid meter so that I can control my consumption.” The Chairman, Ashamu Estate Residents Association, Mr Jaiye Daramola, told PUNCH Metro that he had paid a visit to the Oke-Afa undertaking manager of the IE over the exorbitant estimated charges. Daramola said, “We are getting electricity bills that are exorbitant; you can imagine a one-bedroom flat being asked to pay over N15,000 monthly. I received a bill of N38,000 for my house, which is a duplex, and some other residents got N34,000. “I went to see the manager of the Oke-Afa undertaking this morning and she assured me that they could install prepaid meters in houses within the estate in a day. All they need from us is to send a letter, which they will use to get approval, but she urged us to get money for the meters ready. The executive will be going around the estate to inform residents about the development so that the one-day prepaid meter installation can be achieved.” Another resident, who identified himself simply as Francis, faulted the billing method of the IE, describing it as pure extortion. He stated, “For my three-bedroom flat, I was billed N8,698.20 for November 2019, but by the time I got a text message for the December charge, the bill had jumped to N15,336.30. I have been asking what made the bill jumped by almost 100 per cent? Yes, power supply improved a bit in December, but it wasn’t as if we got 24-hour supply. “Besides, many of the consumers were billed the same amount whereas our consumption pattern differs. I travelled with my entire household to my village in Enugu State on December 13, 2019, and didn’t return to Lagos until January 4, 2020; the only electrical point left on throughout was the security light. So, how come I consumed 670 units of electricity that same month compared to 380 units in November? “When I made enquiries from their marketing agents, I was reliably informed that what the undertaking did was to use the quantum of power supplied to the estate’s transformer to determine the individuals’ bills. After removing what those with prepaid meters consumed, the balance was spread on the accounts of those with analogue meters, and those without meters, irrespective  of the consumption pattern. “This is fraudulent arithmetic on the part of Ikeja Electric and things like this can only happen in Nigeria.” When contacted, the spokesperson for the IE, Felix Ofulue, said, “The issue of customers saying we are extorting them is wrong. If customers are enjoying better power supply than before, there is a tendency for their bills to increase. We are billing according to the power supplied to our customers. “The issue of the residents claiming that they have paid for prepaid meters and we have not supplied the meters is not possible and there is no way a customer will use for a meter and we will now use the fund to offset their bills. There is a special account where the customers are paying the money for prepaid meters into and we don’t have access to that account. “Maybe, the affected customers had outstanding payments and we asked them to clear their bills. I am sure that was what was done to enable the customers to register for prepaid meters seamlessly.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com