The “Jagajaga “crooner, Idris Abdulkareem, in an interview with Toni Ufoh discusses the similarity between Sportsmen and musicians, his love for table tennis and being a big fan of Super Eagles legend, Austin ‘JayJay’ Okocha Music is all about entertainment and your kind of music even goes deeper to expose societal ills. Do you see sportsmen too in that realm? Music is not just entertainment, not in the least. Music can be used to influence, enhance, harm, promote, demote and even defend everything and anything! Sport is also very popular and sports stars are also huge influencers and trendsetters. It all depends if the individual involved wants to use his or her clout negatively or positively. Furthermore, musicians are all about consistency, just like you have been over the years, which footballer (s) do you think has been consistent? Yeah, you know when it comes to sports; I am a huge table tennis fan. I actually played tennis to the extent of representing Kano State in National tournaments, so let me take the question from that perspective. Segun Toriola and Aruna Quadri have been consistent in flying our flags as far as the world of table tennis is concerned. I think these guys, especially Quadri measures up to that same level of consistency as does a few artists in the music industry. Quadri is a reference point in Nigerian Table tennis. Do you see any upcoming talent in his mold? Well, I don’t know but, at least have been hearing about the crop of ‘’nextgen’’ stars coming up via the Lagos Table Tennis junior classic and other events. I am not really into it locally but, with the way the media has highlighted the ‘’nextgen stars’’, I believe the game has a future beyond Quadri. Do you have any club you support sir? I am fiercely and protectively Nigerian in most things I do, so the truth is that I have no particular foreign Football Club that can rightly claim me as their fan. I am an unrepentant Super Eagles fan, and that’s what it is. What’s your take on the Super Eagles? There is progress we’re seeing good football thanks to the newest talents we have drafted into the team. At least Nigerians are happy to watch the team again, that lost spark has been reignited. Do you engage in any sporting activities? Yes, of course, I am a thoroughbred sportsman. I am consummate table tennis player, aside basketball and other forms of exercises one indulges in to keep fit. Do you think the Federal, states and local governments in Nigeria are serious about sports development in the country? My candid opinion is that like you and everyone else knows, the government has never being serious about anything, sports development included. So, let’s not go there… Can you explain further? I won’t, there is no need spilling the beans. It is obvious, clear for all to see. Our vision for sports in this country is short-sighted. There is no roadmap, and when we claim we have, we hardly implement it to the latter. Finally, in the Super Eagles, D’ Tigers, D’ Tigress and other sports, who are your favourite player (s) and why? If you’re talking about the current Super Eagles squad, I won’t tell you that for now as they are all still playing. But for the ones from our living memories, Jay Jay Okocha is still the man. Interesting, you’re an Okocha fan. What is that memorable match of his that turned you into his fan? Lots, the guy has churned out several displays at club and national team level. Is it his exploits at France’94, against Denmark? Or the stunning shot in his debut for PSG back then? Okocha is a magician. Ronaldinho was a learner when the guy was at his peak. I remember that insane dribbling while at Frankfurt where he dribbled, cut in and out, mesmerizing Oliver Kahn before scoring. (Bursts into laughter) it reminds you of those days when kids play on the street you know, playing for fun. So what about other sports? For our male and female national basketball teams, I would rather reserve my comment as we look forward to a more rounded approach to building up the Nigerian Basketball League for effective competitiveness, big money endorsement and talent discovery and nurturing! Until then, I will reserve my comment in that regard. You sound passionate about revamping our basketball, why? It is also a major sport, you can’t contest it. Just look at the sport in Nigeria, we need to work and make the league a reference point on the continent. Look at Angola, you need to see how the sport is being run, you’ll be marveled. You know our basketball needs utmost revamp and hopefully I pray the stakeholders get it right. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com