Armstrong Bakam A Chief Magistrates’ Court 10 in Bauchi has ordered that a 45-year old primary school teacher, Haruna Aliyu of unguwar Ganjuwa, in Bauchi metropolis, be remanded in prison custody for allegedly sodomising his pupil. The accused was said to have been sexually molesting the eight-year-old boy, offering him N10 every Friday as inducement. The presiding Judge, Justice Abdulmumini Adamu, in his ruling, ordered that the suspect, be remanded in prison custody for allegedly luring and molesting the boy sexually. The act was brought to limelight when the pupil took ill as a result of alleged excreting maggots from his anus. Earlier, the police prosecutor, Inspector Yusuf Usman, told the court that on December 6, 2019, a resident of unguwar Ganjuwa within the metropolis of Bauchi, Altine Ladan reported to the police station that one, Haruna Aliyu, age, 45, of the same address allegedly lured his eight-year- old son to his room and forcefully had carnal knowledge of him. The prosecutor added that the suspect had been repeatedly carrying out the act on the boy which, according to him, contravenes section 284 of the penal court. After reading the charges to the accused by the court, the prosecutor sought to be given additional days by the court to enable the police deepen their investigation which the court granted. The judge therefore ordered that the accused be remanded at the Bauchi Correctional Centre. The judge also fixed February 5, 2020, for further hearing of the suit to allow the prosecuting police officer time to further investigate the matter and produce witnesses on it. The victim’s father shortly after the court session told Journalists that he was at the court to observe the proceedings and to see how the court would administer justice  on the matter. He said, “Haruna (the accused) is a teacher at a public school at Unguwar Barno Quarters in Bauchi. He used to lure pupils of the primary school into homosexuality. “For the past two months, my child has been complaining of stomach trouble. We took him to a nearby health facility but he later started complaining of pains in his anus. The situation led to his excretion of maggots from his anus.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com