The US oil and gas rigs count dropped by four on the week to 836, the lowest total since early February 2017, according to Enverus. The number of rigs chasing crude oil for the week ended January 1 was down by three to 670, while gas-oriented rigs moved up by one to 163. Total for rigs not classified as either oil or gas dropped by two. The total domestic rig count has lost just over 400 rigs, or 32 per cent, since the recent peak of 1,237 in mid-November 2018, according to S&P Global Platts. The US rig count fell by 27 per cent this year, starting at 1,145 rigs before shedding 309. In the coming months, S&P Global Platts Analytics forecasts “subtle” rig declines across the board, an analyst, Taylor Cavey said, before totals “hold relatively flat.” “Some producers are taking a maintenance-mode approach and are dropping rigs here and there, whereas other operators plan to keep drilling steady and grow production slightly via further efficiency gains,” Cavey said. Activity-wise, operators ushered in the new year and decade on a low note for some of the US’ largest oil and gas basins. The number of rigs in the Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico was up by one on the week to 396, but last week’s 395 was the lowest number in the giant play since July 2017. In recent weeks, the Marcellus Shale, mostly sited in Pennsylvania, and the Haynesville Shale, in East Texas and Northwest Louisiana, have also hovered at levels last seen in 2017. On Thursday, the Haynesville was up one rig on the week to 48, while the Marcellus had dropped by two to 37. Specifically, the Dry Marcellus (18 rigs) and Wet Marcellus (19 rigs) were each down one. Most basins either gained or lost a rig or two over the Christmas-to-New Year holiday week. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 