Nike Popoola Pension industry operators have called on the Federal Government to constitute the board of the National Pension Commission. This was part of the conclusion reached at the end of a recent retreat that was organised by the Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria for the National Assembly Joint Committees for Establishment and Public Service of the Senate and House of Representatives Committee on Pensions. As of the end of November 2019, total pension funds under the Contributory Pension Scheme stood at N9.9tn, which had been deployed in critical sectors of the economy. Stakeholders are worried that the sector, which had continued to record the fastest growing assets in the financial system had been left without a board for almost three years. During the meeting, the participants applauded the strides made by the pension industry since the pension reforms of 2004. They noted that the country had transited from an unsustainable scheme into one that was beneficial to contributors and the country. They also agreed that more needed to be done to enable the pension industry to benefit more Nigerians. As of the end of September 2019, they revealed that there were 8.85 million registered workers with pension accounts. The CPS had 298,614 retirees on the scheme of which 227,400 were on programmed withdrawal while 71,214 retirees had opted for annuity. Death benefits had been paid to 59,057 since its inception, the operators disclosed. While the industry had improved access to retirement benefits, the meeting agreed that more needed to be done to increase its benefits. The participants resolved to engage the executive to prioritise the payment of accrued rights of pensioners as many pensioners were unable to access their pension contributions because of non-payment of accrued rights. They also resolved to find ways to ensure that state governments were compliant with the provisions of the Act, as many of them were defaulting. During the meeting, the operators resolved to work together on amendments that needed to be made to the Pension Reform Act of 2014 to improve the workings of the pension industry. They sought for improved legislation that would enable the industry to double its asset at least every five years. The participants also agreed that the operators needed to continue their engagement with the private sector and the government to increase the level of infrastructure investment for pension assets, while not compromising safety of retirees’ funds The Chairman of the committee, Ibrahim Shekarau, had however, assured that the lawmakers would look into the challenges confronting Nigerian pensioners. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com