Sola Shittu Benin A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Edo State, Mr Charles Idahosa, has accused the embattled National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, of causing the current crisis rocking the APC across the country. Idahosa therefore warned the former governor of Edo State to stop playing the victim in the crisis. He noted that many APC governors on the account of Oshiomhole’s alleged roles, had started demanding his removal as the party’s national chairman. Idahosa stated this while reacting to Oshiomhole’s call on Nigerians to remember him in their prayers over his fate in the party. The APC national chairman had requested prayers during a meeting with the party members in his Iyamho country home, in the Etsako West Local Government, Edo State. But Idahosa, who served as special adviser on political matters to Oshiomhole when he was the Edo State governor, said the embattled national chairman was the cause of the crisis rocking the party across the country. He said Oshiomhole should not exonerate himself from the imbroglio in an attempt to hoodwink Nigerians into thinking that he was being victimised. Idahosa said, “Comrade Oshiomhole should spare us the drama of asking Nigerians to pray for him over the APC crisis. “It is just a case of bare-faced deceit, which is second nature to him. “It is public knowledge that he is the cause of the crisis in the party, at the national and state levels. “At the national level, the state governors are inching very close to removing him on account of his high-handedness, sabotage and (alleged) tyrannical approach to running the party. “The APC is in more crisis than Oshiomhole met it; the party has lost grounds on account of the national chairman’s combative stance in running its affairs. “In Edo State, he is fighting dirty to entrench himself as a godfather, which he had in the past stood against. “So, the pity-party is needless. We know him for who he is and his intentions are as clear as daylight.” The party chieftain noted that instead of calling for prayers, Oshiomhole should spare Nigerians the theatrics and honourably resign his position as the national chairman. He said such arrangement would create opportunity for a more temperate partyman to pilot the affairs of the APC for the benefit of party members and Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 