Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Sunday expressed the fear  that the ruling All Progressives Congress and the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), would bungle Nigeria’s unity through their “exclusionist policies, disregard for rules, political witch-hunt and failure to bring perpetrators of violence to book.” The PDP was reacting to the meeting between Buhari and the APC youth leaders from the six geopolitical zones at the Presidential villa in Abuja on Friday, where the retired Major General urged Nigerian youths not to lose hope but to gear up to take up the mantle of leadership of the country some day. However, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Sunday, said by making reference to the Biafran war while addressing the youths, Buhari was damaging the psyche of the youths and fuelling disunity. The PDP alleged that efforts by well-meaning Nigerians and groups to ensure unity and harmonious co-existence in the country were being destroyed by the APC and the Buhari regime. Ologbondiyan said, “The PDP holds that in gathering the youth to engage in civil war recounts, while failing to take concrete actions to end the injustices of his administration and prosecute perpetrators of political and sectional violence under his watch,  Buhari is indeed doing more harm than good to the psyche of young Nigerians. “Exclusionist policies as well as repugnant protection of killers and corrupt elements, which have apparently become the policies of the APC, are the very marked difference between the APC and our party, the PDP, which promotes inclusiveness, equal opportunity, justice, fairness, equity, federal character principle and security of citizens, which fostered national stability under the PDP.” Ologbondiyan said there was no way the unity of the nation could be guaranteed under the APC with its alleged witch-hunt, violence and division. He said  the APC had not taken any step to demand the prosecution of the perpetrators of the mass killings in Benue, Kogi, Nasarawa, Kaduna and other parts of the nation. “President Buhari should allow the prosecution of the APC leaders accused of involvement in the looting of over N14tn from our national coffers under his watch,”” Ologbondiyan said. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com