As part of its strategic focus this year, the National Insurance Commission says it will be guided by internal and external factors impacting its operating environment. An official of NAICOM, Adewale Motayo, said the commission planned to implement some main priorities which would align with developmental priorities of the Federal Government. He said the plan would involve recapitalisatiaon of the companies; development of annuity and group life; introduction of market conduct guideline; preparation for the IFRS 17; launch of NAICOM portal; Risk Based Supervision; and ensuring regional integration. Others, he added, were development of agricultural index insurance; market development; actuarial capacity development; financial inclusion (micro-insurance and Takaful); bancassurance authorisation; and Anti-Money Laundery/CFT. Motayo said that the recapitalisation of insurance and reinsurance companies would strengthen the financial position of the companies; reduce risk of insolvency; encourage consolidation; and protect policyholders. According to him, it would also enhance safety and soundness in the subsector; ensure 70 per cent increase in local retention; consolidation of operators; and encourage investments in the insurance sector. NAICOM said to realise this, it had issued a recapitalisation directive, through engagement with relevant regulators on palliatives; and deadline for recapitalisation was recently extended to December, 31, 2020. The commission said it would be prudent with administration of annuity and group life assurance business to ensure adequate protection of enrolled persons; and ensure effective collaboration between NAICOM and the National Pension Commission. It added that it planned to review the existing regulation on retiree and group life assurance which would be concluded by March, 2020. The acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, said, “As the year 2020 continues to unfold, giant strides will be made by the commission in all aspects of its statutory responsibilities. “This is the time to put the past behind and look forward to a better and more vibrant sector.” NAICOM stated that part of its plans for 2020 were to ensure appropriate conduct in insurance market; promote fairness and transparency between policyholders and insurance institutions; and enhance ease of doing business. It said it would review existing market conduct guidelines for adoption in the first quarter of this year. On the IFRS 17, it aimed to enhance financial reporting with respect to insurance contracts; and provide guidance to be issued to the industry and subsequent constitution of the Nigerian Insurance Industry Financial Reporting Group. It disclosed that sensitisation had been conducted and it would commence the implementation on January 1, 2022 Through its portal, NAICOM explained that it would ensure real-time insurance industry data capture; reduce cost of supervision and increase revenue collection through elimination of leakages; and reduce incidents of fake insurance policies by enabling instant verification of policies by Nigerians. It would also improve service delivery to insurers, the insuring public as well as investors and other stakeholders; and enhance fidelity to sustainability principles by curtailing the use of paper. While it said the resolution of back-end infrastructure challenges was ongoing, it would address the issue of capacity building. The RBS framework, it noted, would refocus supervisory priority on insurers’ financial soundness through assessment of the adequacy of an insurer’s governance, risk management and internal controls as well as the solvency and liquidity of the insurer. Ultimately, the NAICOM, vowed to facilitate the emergence of strong, financially sound insurance companies, through capacity building and issuance of an RBS framework to the insurance industry. It, however, did not leave out the essential issue of improved collaboration and facilitation of financial stability within the West African Monetary Zone and engender stability of the financial market in the sub-region. The commission said it was committed to protecting farmers from exposure to risk from natural disastaers, in order to boost food production. “There will be collaboration with Nigeria Incentive Risk Based Sharing for Agricultural Lending to reduce the level of risk exposure of agricultural entrepreneurs,” it stated. According to the commission, five insurance companies have been issued approval to offer agric index insurance and training conducted on it. While it promised to create awareness on the benefits of insurance products and where to seek redress for settlement of genuine claim, the commission added that it would encourage development of product offerings that would de-risk investment undertaking across all sectors; and ensure collaboration with law enforcement and other stakeholders on enforcement of compulsory insurance laws. NAICOM expressed its willingness to address the issue of professionalism as it had prepared framework to address sponsorship of candidates through the Certified Actuarial Analyst career pathway and to champion actuarial skills retention. It also planned to address the growing need for professional analysts with requisite actuarial, technical and analytical skill to fill key roles in financial institutions. “The qualification is to ensure that those working in technical roles have the required skills and methodologies to allow businesses provide assurance to regulators, stakeholders and the public. “An actuarial development committee was constituted to develop an actuarial development framework for the Nigerian insurance industry. “We are partnering the College of Insurance & Financial Management and use of members of the Nigeria Actuarial Society as supervisors for sponsored programmes. “The sponsorship programme is expected to commence in June 2020.” On micro-insurance, it stated that it was the insurance component of the government’s financial inclusion drive intended to bring insurance services to the underserved segment of the society, and this would reduce the level of vulnerability of the low-income segment of the populace, and facilitate employment creation. “Since it released the revised micro-insurance guidelines in January, 2018, it says two micro-insurers (Messrs GOXI and Casava Micro-insurance Ltd) have been granted approval, while other applications are at various stages of approval. “Takaful is another aspect of the government’s financial inclusion drive intended to leverage on Islamic financing principles to serve the segment of the populace with ethical/religious objection to the principle of conventional insurance practice. “This facilitates employment creation and reduces the level of vulnerability of the populace. Operational guidelines for Takaful insurance operators are in place,” it added. NAICOM said two Takaful insurance operators were licensed in 2016, and two additional operators had been granted preliminary approval. With bancassurance authorisation, the commission said it would facilitate improved access to insurance products, so that insurance companies could leverage the banks’ spread to increase channels of access. It would also help to drive financial inclusion and generate employment through outreach. It stated, “The MoU between NAICOM and Central Bank of Nigeria was in place. Eighteen out of 20 applications received have been approved, while processing of the remaining two is at an advanced state. “The AML/CFT policies will enhance preventive measures on financial crimes, money laundering and terrorism funding.” The President, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers, Dr Bola Onigbogi, said the NCRIB was ready to work with NAICOM on its initiatives. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com