John Ameh, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), will embark on a six-day trip to London on Friday, according to the State House. He is to participate in the inaugural UK-Africa Investment Summit, while in London. The summit itself opens on Monday, January 20, but Buhari jets out of Abuja on Friday. Buhari is expected back in Nigeria on Thursday, next week. It will be his first foreign trip this new year. The Presidency, in a statement by Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, explained that the British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, would play host to the summit. African leaders, business owners and heads of international organisations are billed to be in London for the summit to engage in discussions “to create new partnerships that will deliver more investments and jobs.” The UK and Africa are expected to benefit from the outcomes of the talks. READ ALSO: Lagos to rebuild demolished statues of Fela, Awolowo It explained further, “Apart from highlighting new perspectives on UK-Africa Partnership for Prosperity, issues of Sustainable Finance and Infrastructure; Trade and Investment; Future African Growth Sectors and Clean Energy and Climate, are expected to dominate presentations and discussions during the Summit. “With the expected take-off of the African Continental Free Trade Area in mid-2020, the London investment summit will provide Nigeria with the opportunity to project itself as a leading investment destination for new industries. “In addition, the summit will deepen Nigeria-United Kingdom investment ties post-Brexit given that Africa currently represents just two per cent of British trade activity, with Nigeria accounting for only 10 per cent of that total. “The Nigerian delegation to the investment meeting will further showcase what the Federal Government has done through policies and legislation to improve the investment and business climate in the country.” Other engagements of Buhari while in London include holding meetings “with the Head of the Commonwealth, Prince Charles in Glasgow, Scotland”, and bilateral talks Johnson “as well as heads of multilateral organisations”. The Presidency listed those to be on Buhari’s entourage as Governors Yahaya Bello, Muhammad Inuwa and Okezie Ikpeazu of Kogi, Gombe and Abia States respectively. “Also on the presidential entourage are the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo; the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; the National Security Adviser, Major General  Babagana Monguno (retd); and the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador Ahmed Rufai Abubakar,” the statement added.