Nike Popoola The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate says it  has paid one month pension arrears totaling N842.8m  to 11,331 pensioners of the defunct NITEL/Mtel in December, 2019. The payment was made to the pensioners as part of the Federal Government’s commitment to reduce inherited pension liabilities, the directorate stated. The Executive Secretary, PTAD, Dr Chioma Ejikeme, assured pensioners that their welfare remained a priority to the government. A statement said Ejikeme had been commended for her open-door policy and empathy in handling pensioners and their concerns since her assumption of office. This commendation was given by the National President, Federal Universities Pensioners Association, Dr Ayuba Kura, during a meeting with the executive secretary and national executive members of the association at PTAD headquarters in Abuja. According to Kura, the meeting was to among other things get clarification with regards the balance of 33 per cent pension arrears, National Health insurance for pensioners, outcome of the nationwide parastatals pensioners verification, as well as the pension percentage increase in line with the approved new minimum wage. He also expressed apprehension with regards to pension payments In her response, the executive secretary welcomed and thanked Kura and the executive members for their presence and re-emphasised the directorate’s readiness to continue to engage with the association with a view to enhancing the welfare of senior citizens. She reassured them that PTAD was a 100 per cent TSA compliant agency which meant the manual processing of pension payments had been removed, such that staff of PTAD did not have access to these funds. Pension payments were made from PTAD TSA accounts at the Central Bank of Nigeria directly to the pensioners’ accounts through their banks. Ejikeme assured that on the issues raised including the balance of the 33 per cent pension arrears and the pension percentage increase in line with the approved new minimum wage, PTAD was in talks with relevant agencies to make sure they were addressed as soon as possible. With regards to the outcome of the parastatals pensioners verification, she said the agency was fine-tuning its model and strategy for the smooth implementation of the exercise which will be in phases. The data collated during the exercise would also ensure that only qualified, biometrically verified pensioners were on the Federal Government/PTAD database and payroll system when plans were concluded to commence the National Health Insurance for pensioners. She reminded the association that pensioners who missed the general verification exercise could be verified at PTAD Headquarters in Abuja or the Lagos Zonal Office. “Mobile verification was also available for pensioners who were too old or sick to come out for the general verification. “There is a register to collate details of pensioners in diaspora pending when they return to Nigeria for their verification, “she added. The executive secretary also spoke about a recent BVN revalidation exercise conducted in collaboration with the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System. She said the exercise was to remove pensioners from the payroll if their account was not NUBAN or the bank did not exist, continuous failed payment from August 2019 to October 2019, duplicate BVN or no BVN. This culminated in the removal of some pensioners from the Parastatals Pension Department payroll effective November 2019. She encouraged FUPA to notify affected senior citizens so that they could contact PTAD for their BVN update. She said  PTAD would never request or accept gratification to process their pension payment, and asked them to report anyone suspected to be a fraudster. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 