Johnny Edward and Kelvin Ekerete ENGLAND Kelechi Iheanacho, Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City) Leicester City striker Kelechi Iheanacho was introduced in the 74th minute for Ayoze Perez as the Foxes suffered a 2-1 loss at Burnley in Sunday’s Premier League game. It was his sixth EPL appearance this season. Iheanacho boasts three goals – to equal his highest tally since he joined the King Power outfit from Manchester City. As expected, Wilfred Ndidi played no part in the encounter due to injury. Leon Balogun (Brighton) Leon Balogun was not listed in Brighton’s 1-1 draw against Aston Villa in the English Premier League on Saturday. The Nigeria international is yet to feature for the club in the Premier League this season. Bright Osayi-Samuel, Eberechi Eze (QPR) Osayi-Samuel and Eze both played 90 minutes in Queens Park Rangers’ 1-0 win over promotion hopefuls Leeds United on Saturday in the English Championship. Leeds ended the game with 10 men after Kalvin Phillips was shown a straight red card. Bukayo Saka (Arsenal) Saka made eight Premier League starts for Arsenal, who were held 1-1 by Sheffield United on Saturday. Saka, who operated from the left-back position, provided the assist for Gabriel Martinelli’s opener in the 45th minute. The assist was his first in the EPL in 14 games. SPAIN Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal) Chukwueze played the entire duration for Villarreal, who lost 2-1 at home to Espanyol on Sunday. Chukwueze has scored three league goals in 18 games but he is without a goal in his last six league games. Oghenekaro Etebo (Getafe), Kenneth Omeruo, Chidozie Awaziem (Leganes) Oghenekaro Etebo made his La Liga debut for Getafe in a 3-0 win at Leganes in a Madrid derby on Saturday. The Nigerian midfielder replaced Alan Nyom in the 31st minute, while his Super Eagles teammate, Kenneth Omeruo, featured for the entire duration for Leganes. Chidozie Awaziem was an unused substitute. Awaziem has featured 12 times in the league this season while Omeruo has been involved 13 times for the club. ITALY Ola Aina (Torino) Aina made his 17th appearance for Serie A side, Torino, on Saturday in a 2-1 loss at Sassuolo on Saturday. The Nigeria international was on for the entire duration of the game and was cautioned by referee Mapei Massa in the 60th minute for a foul. Aina has provided one assist in the Serie A this season. William Troost-Ekong (Udinese) Troost-Ekong played the entire duration of Udinese’s 3-2 loss away to AC Milan. Ante Rebic completed his brace with the last kick of the game, as Milan snatched a dramatic 3-2 victory over Udinese. GERMANY Taiwo Awoniyi (Mainz) Awoniyi was not listed in Mainz’s 2-1 home loss to Freiburg in the German Bundesliga on Saturday. The Nigerian U-23 star is yet to score in six appearances for the German outfit. Anthony Ujah (Union Berlin) Anthony Ujah was on for 15 minutes in Union Berlin’s 3-1 loss to table-toppers RB Leipzig in the German Bundesliga on Saturday. The Nigerian replaced Sebastian Andersson but fired blanks. Ujah has scored twice in 15 appearances for the club. FRANCE Victor Osimhen (Lille) Victor Osimhen scored a 92nd-minute goal as Lille beat Gonfreville 2-0 in the round of 32 of the French Cup on Saturday to progress to the quarter-final stage of the competition. The 21-year-old brought the needed spark to the game after replacing Luiz Araujo in the 61st minute and was instrumental in the team’s opening goal in the 69th minute. The goal was Osimhen’s 15th in 27 appearances for Lille since joining the side from Belgian club, Sporting Charleroi. Moses Simon (Nantes) Moses Simon scored once and provided two assists for Nantes, who lost 4-3 at home to Lyon in a French Cup round of 32 clash on Saturday. Simon scored in the 82nd minute but the seven-time Ligue 1 champions held on for a win. The Nigeria international, who played the entire duration of the game, was voted Nantes’ Man of The Match. He has scored six times in all competitions this season. SCOTLAND Joe Aribo, Sheyi Ojo (Rangers) Joe Aribo played 81 minutes in Glasgow Rangers’ 2-0 win over Stranraer FC in the Scottish Cup fourth round on Friday. The 23-year-old Aribo was replaced by Kai Kennedy in what was his 17th league game of the season. Aribo has scored twice and made seven assists this term in the SPL. His compatriot, Sheyi Ojo, replaced Jermaine Defoe in the 61st minute. SAUDI ARABIA John Ogu (Al-Adalah), Ahmed Musa (Al Nassr) John Ogu made his debut for new club Al Adalh in their 1-0 loss to Al Nassr in the quarter-final of the Kings Cup of Champions on Friday. The Nigerian played as a central defender in the defeat. Ahmed Musa made a cameo appearance in the game replacing Giuliano de Paula in the 90th minute. Musa is yet to score this season TURKEY Anthony Nwakaeme, Mikel Obi (Trabzonspor) Nwakaeme scored twice while John Obi Mikel put in an impressive shift to help Trabzonspor secure a comfortable 6-0 victory against Kasımpasa in Sunday’s Turkish Super Lig game. After starring in their Cup triumph over Denizlispor, where he found the back of the net, Nwakaeme continued his fine form at Medical Park Arena. The 30-year-old striker notched his sixth league goal in the 29th minute after Jose Sosa and Alexander Sorloth had given the Black Sea Storm a 2-0 lead. Nwakaeme set up Sorloth for his second goal in the encounter and then grabbed his brace in the 83rd minute before Sorloth completed his hat-trick to seal the rout. The Nigeria international was on parade for the duration of the game along with his compatriot and former Super Eagles captain Mikel Obi. Nwakaeme now has six goals in 18 league appearances this season for Trabzonspor The victory propelled Huseyin Cimsir’s men to third on the Super Lig table after gathering 35 points from 18 games. The Nigerian stars will hope to continue their impressive performances when Trabzonspor take on Ogenyi Onazi’s Denizlispor on Thursday. Ogenyi Onazi (Denizlispor) Onazi made a losing start with Denizlispor after a 2-1 defeat to Galatasaray in Sunday’s Turkish Super Lig encounter. The 27-year-old, who left Trabzonspor for the Rooster in a bid to get regular playing time, was handed a starter’s shirt by manager Mehmet Ozdilek. It took the Nigeria international just 29 minutes to get into referee Yasar Ugurlu’s books as he was cautioned, three minutes after Emre Akbaba put the hosts ahead. However, he was replaced in the 64th minute by on-loan Besiktas midfielder Sedat Sahinturk. Following the defeat, Denizlispor remain 11th with 22 points from 18 games, while Terim’s side are in sixth position with 30 points. SPAIN Rita Chikwelu (Madrid Femenino) Chikwelu opened her Spanish Primera Iberdrola goal account on her first start in Madrid CFF’s 4-1 triumph over Athletic Club on Sunday. Chikwelu scored Madrid’s second goal three minutes after new-signing Antonia gave the hosts the lead in the fifth minute. She featured for 77 minutes before being replaced by Maria del Carmen. The victory moves Madrid to 11th position on the log with 15 points from 16 matches and will seek to keep up their newly discovered winning form when they visit bottom-placed Espanyol next Sunday. Asisat Oshoala (Barcelona) Oshoala failed to add to her tally of 14 goals in Barcelona’s 3-1 home win over Rayo Vallecano. The reigning CAF Women’s Player of The Year played the entire duration of the game for Barcelona’s ladies, who remain unbeaten so far this season in the league. ISRAEL Austin Ejide (Hapoel Hadera), Chikeluba Ofoedu (Maccabi Tel Aviv) Austin Ejide conceded three goals as Hapoel Hadera bowed 3-0 at home to Maccabi Tel Aviv in Saturday’s Israeli topflight game. Making his 19th appearance of the season, the 35-year-old could not prevent Sharon Mimer’s men from crumbling before their teeming supporters. Nigeria’s Chikeluba Ofoedu put the visitors ahead after 22 minutes as half time scores ended 1-0 inside the Netanya Stadium. Ofoedu was replaced by Itay Shechter in the 68th minute, while Ejide was on parade from start to finish for Hapoel Hadera. Maccabi Tel Aviv are unbeaten in their last 22 games to maintain top spot in the log with 47 points after 19 matches while Hadera remain fifth with 25 points. South Africa Daniel Akpeyi (Kaizer Chiefs) Daniel Akpeyi helped Kaizer Chiefs maintain their unbeaten run in the Premier Soccer League on Saturday following a 1-1 away draw to Black Leopards. The game was Akpeyi’s 15th appearance for Kaizer Chiefs in the PSL this season. He had kept clean sheets in Kaizer Chiefs’ last two games before he was eventually breached by Black Leopards. However, they still occupy the top spot on 42 points, 10 points ahead of second-placed Mamelodi Sundowns, who will be at SuperSport on Sunday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com