John Charles, Makurdi Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom on Tuesday asked the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, not to blame him for the condemnation of his verbal attack on the Tor Tiv, James Ayatse. Ortom was reacting to the minister’s statement, accusing the governor for sponsoring people, particularly, the state caucus in the National Assembly to attack him. The governor said he did not ask the minister to insult the Tor Tiv who doubles as the Chairman, Benue State Council of Chiefs. Akume, through his media aide, Aondona Mkor, had blamed Ortom for the condemnation of his attack on the Tiv paramount ruler. The minister also suggested that Ortom should have been invited by the Tiv Area Traditional Council to name what he had done for the people, issues of salaries and pensions as well as the construction of a new palace for Tor Tiv. But Ortom, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, said, “Governor Ortom did not advise Senator Akume to insult the Tor Tiv. He said, “It therefore amounts to misplaced aggression for Senator Akume’s media aides to blame the governor for the negative reactions from Benue people regarding his derogatory comments against the Tor Tiv. He added, “The Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs Minister ought to face the consequences of his public conduct and spare Governor Ortom of any blame. “As a prominent son of Benue who has occupied top positions including that of governor, Senator Akume didn’t need anyone to counsel him on the etiquette of showing respect for royal fathers. “Akume is visibly angry with every Benue person since he lost the 2019 senatorial election and has raised a red flag against his imaginary adversaries. “He has on several occasions called Governor Ortom unprintable names but the governor has chosen not to join the minister to dance naked. “Akume’s recent attack on the Tor Tiv which has justifiably drawn the ire of the people only took his plane of insults to a higher altitude.” Akase spokesman said it was an insult to members of the state caucus in the National Assembly when Akume insinuated that they were sponsored by the governor to condemn his statements on the Tor Tiv. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com