A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress and former Special Adviser to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan on Political Matters, Ahmed Gulak, speaks with SUCCESS NWOGU on national and contemporary issues Do you think the APC is willing to zone the presidency to the South in 2023? I am a student of quality and integrity. Whoever wants to become the President of this country must be able to discharge his constitutional duties, and carry the people along and must follow the Constitution. Whether North or South, it is left for the party. Zoning or no zoning is brought about by the idea to stabilise the country and say, ‘let everybody feel a sense of belonging,’ without taking into account what democracy is all about. Democracy is all about fair play and it is a game of numbers, so, whoever is qualified can contest. If you are talking about zoning in this country, I believe sincerely that it is the North-East and the South-East that should be jostling for the Presidency. I sincerely believe that the North-East or the South-East should be given the chance in 2023 to have a bit at the Presidency. The North-West, for example, has had more than a fair share. If you are talking of civilian administration or democracy, we had Alhaji Umaru Yar’Adua; we are having Buhari who will be serving, God willing, eight years. South-West has Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, who had it for eight years. Former President, Dr Goodluck Jonathan, had it for five years with one year of Yar’Adua. So, we have South-South, South-West and North-West, they have had more than fair share. So, if we are talking about zones now, let us talk about South-East and North-East. If you are talking about military regimes, we had in the North-West, the late General Sani Abacha from Kano; we have Buhari from Katsina; we had Obasanjo from the South-West; we had Gen Aguiyi Ironsi from the South-East, we had Gen. Yakubu Gowon from the North-Central, (also Gen Ibrahim Babangida and Gen Abdulsalam Abubakar). So, if you are talking of rotation, let us work with either North-East or South-East. But that is for those clamouring for rotation or zoning. But Nigeria is too big for that! If we are copying democracy, let us copy it properly. Have you seen the Unites States of America zoning presidency? If you are competent and you are qualified, go for it! Let the entire country decide. Do you agree with the Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai who recently advised the party to dump zoning for merit and competence in 2023? (Cuts in), that is my stand. The APC has been faced with one internal crisis or the other in the past few months. As a chieftain of the party, what do you think is responsible for this? It is power-game, more so, that it is the ruling party and it is the party in the centre. In every power game, there must be intrigues and you must know how to aggregate the interests. We should know how to ameliorate, aggregate and see how we can meander through the interests and be a united party. But be that as it may, no party is free from crisis. Even the Peoples Democratic Party as it is, they are the opposition party and they have their share of the crisis. In power came, there is bound to be divergent of interests and once there is divergent of interest, there is bound to be an internal crisis. But what makes the party united and going is for the leadership to be able to appreciate, understand and meander through the crisis and bring people together, looking at the larger political interest of the party. Elections in Nigeria appear to be getting worse going by the damning roles of security agents in the recently conducted governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. What measures do you think should be adopted to ensure electoral integrity? I am not only worried, I fear for the survival of democracy in Nigeria because unless and until we change our Electoral Act to give the court the powers to condemn and annul certain elections when they happen, (there will still be cause for worry). As it is today, the Electoral Act tells you that whatever the Independent National Electoral Commission brings is presumed to be correct. And the burden is on the politicians to prove otherwise. For example, in Nigeria, there are over 8,000 polling units. As a presidential candidate, if there were malpractices in such an election, you must bring 8,000 witnesses with documented pieces of evidence to prove that there were malpractices, which is almost impossible. If you are a governorship candidate, for you to prove malpractices in the election, you must bring between 2,000 and 3,000 witnesses. As it is today, the Electoral Act does not give the petitioner, the latitude to prove irregularities. Even if you come with, maybe, six witnesses to prove violence, these witnesses can only prove violence in four or five polling units, leaving out about 2,000 polling units. That is not substantial enough to nullify the election. That is the law! Even if a judge was in that polling unit when the violence took place, he cannot use his knowledge outside what is brought before him to give judgment. That is the truth of the matter! Unless and until we change our Electoral Act, to give the courts the latitude, in certain cases, to declare the election null and void, there may not be a significant improvement. The only way, for now, the court can declare an election null and void is maybe there are documented evidence or constitutional compliance. For example, the Constitution says before you are declared a winner in a governorship election, you must have won in 2/3 of the local government areas in the state. If by the INEC result, you have not complied with that constitutional provision, the court will say because of the constitutional provision which you have not complied with, INEC ought not to have declared the person winner because the votes cast did not meet what the Constitution says. It is straightforward, that is a constitutional issue or qualification. But to prove in the cases of electoral violence and electoral malpractices on the day of an election is almost impossibility. We must move away from that! Some people have predicted that APC may disintegrate by 2023, do you also foresee this? No. It is prediction and people say what their mind tells them. The United States of America predicted that Nigeria will disintegrate in 2015, did Nigeria disintegrate? No. People are free to say their mind. So, what is your opinion? The APC as a ruling party came into being in 2014 by the merger of the legacy parties of Action Congress of Nigeria, All Nigerian Peoples Party, part of the All Progressives Grand Alliance and others. They came into existence by that merger and were successful to dislodge the PDP at the centre and in various states. They must be aware of the fact that PDP too was at the centre before they were dislodged. And we must be focused on trying to bring people on board. Impunity is one of the reasons that made PDP lose elections. The APC must go by the rules and constitution of the party. Even in the 2019 elections, there were some irregularities within the party but that has come and gone. But to forestall what people have predicted, I advise that as a party, they must come together, must begin to mobilise people and tell them what we are doing differently under this administration, so, as win their confidence and trust. But if you allow some of the leaders, both at the states and at the centre, to be acting within their whims and caprices, that is where the party will have more crisis, especially now. This is the right time for this party to work harder to minimise the internal crisis before we inch towards the election in 2023. On the very important issue of Bayelsa and Kogi states, I musts say that Kogi State has been an APC state from the recent past. From Abubakar Audu, he won the election and before the conclusion of the election, he died and Alhaji Yahaya Bello came on board. This is his second term. Do not underrate the power of incumbency! But what the party was able to do in Kogi was to minimise the internal crisis of the party. Those that contested primary with Bello were brought on-board. The leadership at the national level went in and all of them were brought together and worked for the party notwithstanding the pockets of crisis and violence that took place, the basic truth is that the majority of the party leaders in Kogi came together during the election. In the case of Bayelsa, the leadership of PDP in Bayelsa before the election, none stood behind the incumbent Governor, Mr Seriake Dickson. Everybody left him. You are talking of Bayelsa that has eight LGAs, the state of the former President, Dr Goodluck Jonathan; the state of Timi Alaibe, Senator Emmanuel Paulker, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, Senator Nimi Barigha-Amange, and others. We know them. We know the political gatekeepers in the eight LGAs, none of them remained in the PDP. And it was an uphill task for one person, even though he is an incumbent governor, to win the election. Where did the political gatekeepers go? At least, we did not see them work for the party. They did not work for the party because of the attitude of the governor. That is my belief. PDP lost that election because the leaders and members of the party were not cohesive, they were not on the same page and they did not work together during the election. Some were nonchalant while some did not even go to vote and that was because right from day one, during the primary, the governor was alone, he continued to be alone and he wanted to be alone and at the end of the day, he was alone and he was defeated. How would you assess the continued poverty in the oil-producing states? The South-South is not poor. But you should understand that there is no oil-producing state in Nigeria. No state is producing oil. That is why I like the policy of President Muhammadu Buhari that said they will allocate oil well to the states so that they can produce the oil. Because the oil is beneath your soil, you are a state that bears oil. You are not producing oil. Those producing oils are the companies that drill the oil. So, no state in the south is producing oil. That is the more reason I am really happy with the policy that all the states in the Niger Delta be given oil well so that they can deploy their resources and begin to produce the oil, like the oil companies. Generally speaking, all Nigerians are facing poverty. It is even more pronounced in the North-East that has been battling with insurgency for the past 10 years. So, sincerely speaking, the Niger Delta has no business being poor with the Niger Delta Development Commission, with 13 per cent derivation, and with federal allocation. If they have been able to harness these resources, Niger Delta has no business being poor. Do you think the forensic audit of the NDDC as ordered by the president would yield positive results given the manoeuvring prowess of politicians? That is a presidential directive. I believe it is consequent upon reports of what has been happening in the NDDC from inception. The President would not have woken up one day and ordered the forensic audit, it must have been based on the reports that were not palatable. I hate to know that some of the contracts in the NDDC were not done. Money was paid and no job was done. That is why I like the policy of Buhari that said he will allocate oil well to the states so that they can produce the oil. I also understand that interim management has been put in place in the NDDC to oversee what is happening. I hope and pray the Minister, Godswill Akpabio, under whose supervision the ministry is, will be on top of the situation to be sure that the President’s directive is carried out, the report made public, who and who are culprits and they monies that were looted are returned to the NDDC for the commission to work for the people for which it was created. What should be done to enhance the development of those states where oil is being produced? Let the people begin to hold their leaders accountable. What are they doing with the 13 per cent derivation? Let the Niger Delta people begin to hold their leaders and governors accountable for what is happening. Let politicians of integrity and those who know what they are doing be elected to be in the Houses of Assembly because they are supposed to be the checks and balances on the executive to know where the money is going and where the resources are being deployed. We need to have a system on the ground where leaders are being checked. Let me say this with all sense of responsibility, it is only at the centre that you see a semblance of democracy and semblance of checks and balances on the executive from the NASS. If you go to the states, you will be amazed. There was a time in this country when a governor took the budget to the state House of Assembly, read the budget, hit the gavel himself, approved the budget and walked away. It is at the centre that you see a semblance of checks and balances of our constitutional democracy and not in almost all the states. The NDDC Act vested the powers to supervise the commission under the President. It is lawful or good for the supervision of the NDDC to be transferred to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs. Some people interpret the Act that the power cannot be delegated or transferred as it is invested in the President to supervise? They do not know the law. The President is right, he is on track, he has the constitutional powers to nominate his ministers. He has nominated his minister, the minister has been cleared. He has delegated that powers to the Minister of Niger Delta and NDDC is in the Niger Delta. Do you want the President to delegate that power to the Minister of Education or Minister of the Federal Capital Territory or the Minister of Defence? He has done the appropriate thing. What should be done to resolve the impasse over the constitution of the NDDC board? There is no impasse. But there is a crisis! There is no crisis for God’s sake! The President withdrew his first nomination because of what he discovered and I believe the minister drew his attention to it that the NDDC Act said the chairmanship should rotate. It was discovered that the chairmanship is supposed to be for Delta State now and the Managing Director should be in another state because the immediate former MD was from Akwa Ibom and the immediate former Chairman was from Cross River. The NDDC Act says the leadership should rotate among the oil-bearing states. It was discovered that the first nomination that was withdrawn was not in agreement with the NDDC Act, and the President had to correct it. It is good to have a President that will abide by the law. No matter how far he has gone on the wrong road, it is better to turn back and follow the right path. That is what the NDDC Act says. Do you think the party was right to suspend some governors for alleged anti-party activities? Very correct because if you are talking about democracy, the party should be supreme. The major problem we have in our democracy is that people, once they are in office, they consider themselves as demi-gods. There are calls for the removal of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Is this justified? Who is calling for that? Some people including those from Edo State….. Edo people are not the only ones that elected Oshiomhole to be the APC national chairman. He was elected to lead the party for four years. I voted for him and I am not calling for his removal. I want him to serve out his four years. Every human being has his or her weaknesses. But do not throw the baby away with the bath water. Oshiomhole has been the national chairman of APC through a due process. He was elected at a national convention. If you want to remove him, there are processes, and not you as a governor, sitting in the Government House, and calling for his removal. There are processes for his removal and he (governor) knows. The constitution is there. What do you make of the crisis between Oshiomhole and the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki? It is completely unnecessary. If we are to copy democracy properly, how can you inaugurate a House without giving notice? You call some members to the Government House and inaugurate them and select a Speaker. Is that proper? Is that what the Constitution says? No! For proclamation, you have to give notice, and they are supposed to meet in the chambers of the state House of Assembly in a specific period, say 10 am. It is not in the Government House by 11 pm. Some of our leaders that we elected into offices, once they get into that office it gets into their heads and they completely forget that this is a democracy, their election, and governance, every power derives from the Constitution. And how many of them even read the Constitution? What is the solution to the impasse between Oshiomhole and Obaseki? The Governor of Edo State should appreciate the fact that every power is derived from the Nigerian Constitution. The party has its rules and regulations and even the Constitution. The National Assembly tried to wade into the matter. I believe the governor was wrong in the sense that the inauguration of the House of Assembly was not proper. Let us call a spade a spade. That was the genesis of the crisis. So, what is the solution? The party at the national level set up a committee in the recent past to wade into the matter and proffer solution. I learnt the governor rejected the composition of the committee, which is wrong. You cannot hold the party to ransom! He is not the best person in Edo State to be governor. He was not, yet people rallied round and elected him as governor. He was not the most intelligent and even if he is intelligent, he has not proved that intelligence in what has happened in the recent past. An intelligent, and a sensitive person, would not have done what he has done. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com