Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi Members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria popularly known as Shi’ites, have raised an alarm that the Federal Government is not willing to release their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-zakzaky, but wants him to die in detention. The National President, Association of the Shi’ite Singers called ‘Ittihadus Shu’ara Harakatil Islamiyya’, Mallam Mustafa Gadonkaya, made the allegation during the launching of 100 songs in solidarity with the detained Sheikh composed by the association on Saturday. Gadonkaya, a disciple of El-zakzaky, recalled that their leader was arrested and held by security agents since December 2015. He noted that the authorities had refused to obey the court that ordered his release, payment of compensation and reconstruction of his demolished buildings during the encounter between the sect members and the Nigerian Army four years ago in Zaria, Kaduna State. He said, “It is known by everyone that our leader sued the government for human rights violation and a Federal High Court in Abuja ordered his release, reconstruction of his demolished residence and payment of compensation. But the government has disregard for courts and refused to obey the court order. What kind of injustice is this? “At the moment, everyone knows that he is very ill as a result of the gunshots he sustained but these people still keep him in detention despite his ill-health. So if anything happens to him, government will be held responsible. “Aside their disobedience to the court, the Federal Government, however, accepted the request of the Kaduna State Government to hand him over to it for prosecution over some baseless accusations. Their motive is to continue to hold him until he dies in detention.” The singers, therefore, demanded that the authorities should free El-Zakzaky, his wife and other members, vowing that unless they were released unconditionally, they would continue to protest. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 