Bola Bamigbola The corpse of female Lagos State University student, Seun Favour, murdered by a pastor, Segun Philips and her lover, Owolabi Adeeko,  in Ikoyi-Ile, Osun State, was on Saturday exhumed by homicide experts from the Osun State Police Command. The State Commissioner of Police, Babatunde Kokumo, who led the team that exhumed the corpse, said the move would enable the police to conclude investigation into the matter. While responding to questions from newsmen, Philips said he killed the deceased to experiment with what he read in the ‘Seven Book of Moses.’ Philips, who was led around the scene of the crime alongside other two suspects, Owolabi Adeeko, and his mother, Mrs Adeeko, said it was the first time he killed a person, adding that the late Seun Favour was thrown into a half dug well where she was dismembered and some organs removed before she was buried. Addressing newsmen at the scene of the crime, Osun Commissioner of Police, Babatunde Kokumo, assured residents, who expressed concern over the incident and rained curses on the perpetrators that all churches in the neighbourhood would be investigated. Kokumo said, “We are all aware of the gruesome killing of a student of LASU. The killing has been traced to Ikoyi-Ile. “We have brought our homicide experts to exhume and help in the furtherance of the investigations started by the Ogun State Police Command with a view to prosecuting the suspects. “It is a gruesome murder and the whole thing is quite horrible. We will not fold our arms and watch lawless citizens take laws into their hands, destroying people’s lives. We have been informed that we have a number of churches in this community. It is our responsibility to conduct our investigation. What we are doing is intelligence policing driven by the people’s needs. “If the communities are making us know that they are no longer comfortable with the number of churches or the calibre of such people running the churches, then it becomes our responsibility to conduct an investigation on their activities and check them. “My advice is that parents have a lot of roles to play.  We have a lot of children in schools, the parents owe them the responsibility to make to know that apart from their academic pursuit they must see to their moral training. It is only when the two are well combined that you can have a complete human being. They should see to the peer group they belong to.”