Johnny Edward Saido Mane was on Tuesday crowned the 2019 CAF Player of The Year ahead of Mohamed Salah (Egypt) and Riyad Mahrez (Algeria), Sports Extra reports. The 2019 CAF Awards ceremony was held at the Albatros Citadel Sahl Hasheesh, Hurghada, Egypt, with top football dignitaries in attendance. Mane, who had been a finalist in the previous three editions, was also in the top five for the 2019 Ballon d’Or, a crown ultimately won by Lionel Messi. Super Falcons captain Asisat Oshoala also clinched a fourth African Women’s Player of The Year crown at the awards ceremony. She beat South Africa’s Thembi Kgatlana and Cameroon’s Ajara Nchout to equal the feat of Perpetua Nkwocha, who won the award in 2004, 2005, 2010, 2011. The 25-year-old Barcelona star in her reaction was delighted at her achievement. “Grateful to be African Women’s Player of the year for the fourth time. Thank God, my family, friends and fans for the support. Big shout out to my club, my management, teammates at both national team and club level and of course thanks to CAF for the opportunity,” she tweeted. Dortmund defender Achraf Hakimi beat Nigeria duo Victor Osimhen and Samuel Chukwueze to the 2019 African Youth Player of The Year award. Hakimi has now won the award twice after clinching it in 2018. The 21-year-old full-back has been in scintillating form for Borussia Dortmund since teaming up with the side on loan from Real Madrid last season. Hakimi has notched six goals and contributed six assists across all competitions this term. Youcef Belaili won the award the Best Inter-clubs Player. The Lioness of Cameroon won the best Women’s Team of The Year while the Fennecs of Algeria was adjudged Africa’s Men’s Team of The Year award. Riyad Mahrez’s stunning free-kick against Nigeria in the semi-finals of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations won the Goal of The Year award. South Africa’s Desiree Ellis won the Women’s Coach of The Year award, while Djamel Belmadi was named Africa’s Men’s Coach of The Year. The Best Football Federation award went to Egypt while TP Mazembe won the club of the year award. No Super Eagles player made the CAF Team of The Year. The players who made the list are Andre Onana (Cameroon), Achraf Hakimi (Algeria), Kalidou Koulibaly(Senegal), Joel Matip (Cameroon), Serge Aurier (Ivory Coast), Riyad Mahrez (Algeria), Idrissa Gueye (Senegal), Hakim Ziyech (Morocco), Mohamed Salah (Egypt) and Saido Mane (Senegal). CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com