Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The death toll in Saturday’s gas explosion at Sabon Tasha in the Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State has risen to six, according to the state police command. The gas explosion occurred on a business premises located along Kachia Road, Sabon Tasha, between 2.30pm and 3.00pm. Although the cause of the explosion has not been ascertained, the state government, according to the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, will investigate the matter. The command also said properties valued at 16,402,300 were burnt in the four shops affected by the explosion. But the command failed to name the sixth victim of the disaster, which claimed the lives of the Director-General of the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission, Prof. Simon Mallam. The NAEC DG was said to have gone to a barbershop, located within the premises of the gas  when the explosion happened. However, the State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo, listed the names of the all-male victims as Prof. Mallam Simon, Wale Ajayi, Daniel Peter, Victor Asoegwu and Michael Ernest. Sabo said, “The Kaduna State Police Command wishes to update the general public that the death toll has increased to six from the five persons already mentioned in an earlier statement. “The command has also, in the course of investigation, identified five of the deceased victims as Prof. Mallam Simon (M), Wale Ajayi (M), Daniel Peter (M), Victor Asoegwu (M), and Michael Ernest (M). “Properties valued at N16,402,300 only have been burnt in the four shops affected by the fire.” He added, “The Commissioner of Police, Ali Janga, has expressed his sincere condolences to the families of the victims and assured the public that the command was still investigating the root cause of the incident and would ensure justice in accordance with the law.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 