Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. A few days into the new year, I was invited as a guest on the Patito’s Gang, where I joined a few other experts to discuss the Fourth Industrial Revolution. We looked at the impact of digital revolution on the economy as well as on the future of developing nations such as Nigeria. The anchor of the show, Prof. Pat Utomi, focused on the impact of technology on the financial services sector. Nigeria’s fintechs have done pretty well; but a lot certainly still needs to be done and success in this sector will be determined how start-ups that operate within the sector decide to innovate. Fintechs that want to succeed will have to continuously employ digital solutions to bring about unending satisfaction that is constantly evolving in expectations. There is no doubt that the traditional means of handling financial services, especially the banking system have over the years delivered brand recognition and credibility services to the corporates and individuals in this country. However, traditional financial services are stuck in established processes. This often comes with processes that stall the development of new solutions to address the difficulties that come with solving the needs of their customers. Contrary to the traditional system model, fintechs have employed the development of digital solutions for the satisfaction of users. The question now is: why do the financial service providers, especially the banking sector, need digital solutions now compared to the ones offered through traditional methods? Since the boom of fintech start-ups, the evolution of customers has been taken to another level of awareness. Thus, even the unbankable are gradually accepting to execute their financial transactions through the use of digital solutions, after neglecting the traditional means. This has clearly shown how digital trends can bring about noticeable transformation in the polity. The impact of digital solutions on financial services has therefore helped to increase competition in the financial sector. Digital solutions by fintechs have brought about more personalized experience for users than ever before. This has by miles disrupted a good number of activities in the financial sphere, which in turn has resulted in increased pressure on banks and quick development of new products and services. Investment in digital solutions has not only transformed customers experience with financial services but has also impacted the workplaces where these various services are carried out. Digital transformation has been able to provide the best of alignment between teams for more collaboration, quick and efficient result as well as precise customer service; the ability of automation, in terms of tasks involving administration; ease of workflow and the ability to simplify challenging work that would have appeared difficult, going by the traditional approach. It has also brought in a new approach of organizational transparency. The offering of digital solutions in financial services might appear not to have covered a lot of grounds when it comes to the subject matter of transparency, but compared to the traditional means, it has brought more transparency options to the table. What has digital solution been able to offer the financial service firms and their users? Digital solutions have shifted the focus from the regular traditional business structures to empowerment of staff members, through the contribution of ideas and decision making. Since cloud-based services are economical, digital solutions have found ways to meet these needs, thus streamlining costs of infrastructure and the IT. Since digital transformation has gone mobile, customers are in expectation of what would continuously guarantee them ease and convenience in their business dealings. Digital transformation often involves a continuous experimentation and this gives room for learning. This, in return, produces outcomes that inform bigger changes in the financial industry. Technology will continue to evolve, thus calling for more adaptation in the current processes employed. One cannot afford to get stuck in the traditional means of executing financial services in this new decade, the 21st century. Only the adoption of digital solutions will see a lasting impact on that industry. In the present digital world, technology has offered many platforms for entrepreneurs to explore new choices, conveniences and avenues, to meet their consumers’ satisfaction. For every action taken by a digital consumer, there is a corresponding financial transaction that has ensued. The rise of mobile banking has also changed the way financial transaction is carried out. Do not forget that the banking sector was one of the first financial industries to go digital. Some years back, the banking sector had to ensure the integration of risk management, using technology and this has played a great role in assisting banks and other financial institutions to tackle risk management. The impact it has made on risk management has helped to join people and processes in such a collaborative way that risk management decisions are made at greater speed. This continues to impact positively on the financial industry. Continuous efforts have been affected to drive modernization in the banking sector and the fintechs are the ones on the front line to execute this. For effective impact on the banking sectot to be felt more, as part of the financial services industry, the central authority on finance needs to be the source or at least partner private organisations to drive massive innovative changes for digital solutions. Previous efforts made incredible impact as they have made banking more accessible to millions of people. The sector must continue to evolve around technology while embracing innovation so that it will meet the ever changing needs of customers and boost the strength of the country. Digital solutions are just the newly found opportunities for fintech to provide multiple options for consumers. Fintech companies providing digital solutions should not be seen as the enemies of the financial industry. But the Central Bank of Nigeria, looking at their impact, can provide a pathway for them. This will ensure promotion of economic development, innovation and healthy competition. They should be provided with a framework that guarantees that these fintech companies operate in a conducive environment while offering financial services to customers and other businesses. As digital transformation spreads, its impact will continue to grow bigger, having its mark on anti-money laundering, anti-fraud capabilities, payment processing and other digitally-enabled actions. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com