Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Nigeria Customs Service has shortlisted a total of 162,399 candidates for aptitude test in its recruitment exercise which commenced last year. The 162,399 candidates were selected out of the 828,333 candidates that applied to be recruited into the service. The 162,399 candidates represent about 19.6 per cent of the total number that applied for the recruitment exercise. The Public Relations Officer, NCS, Mr Joseph Attah confirmed the development in a statement issued on Monday in Abuja. Attah in the statement said that the candidates were selected after a painstaking short-listing process by the Service. The statement stated that the Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (retd) has given assurances of his determination to preside over a recruitment process that will be credible, transparent and smooth. It said despite the disturbing attempts by internet fraudsters to hack and discredit the recruitment process, the service is committed to ensuring that the recruitment exercise is conducted in a transparent manner. It reads in part, “After a painstaking short-listing process, a total of 162,399 have been short-listed out of 828,333 candidates that applied. “In-line with our earlier stated guideline, those shortlisted are being notified via their e-mail addresses and telephone numbers. “Consequently, all those notified will do their aptitude tests at a date and centre indicated in their respective notification slips, they are expected to print from their e-mail account. READ ALSO: Group wants Obaseki’s govt probed for money laundering “For the avoidance of doubt, NCS recruitment process requires no monetary payment, hence any such request from any quarter should be regarded as fraudulent and ignored.” The statement said all short-listed candidates should be at the centres with the notification slips and identity card. It added that the candidates are to be in their best behaviours and comply with all instructions during the aptitude tests as doing the contrary could lead to instant disqualification.