Nike Popoola The Standard Chartered Sustainable Development Goals Investment Map has revealed that there is about $9.66tn opportunity for private-sector investors across all emerging markets to help achieve the United Nation’s SDGs, with Nigeria representing $114.2bn of that total. The study identified opportunities for the private sector to contribute to three infrastructure-focused goals between now and 2030 which were SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation; SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and SDG 9; and Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure across emerging markets. A statement said that in Nigeria, the greatest SDG investment opportunity was found in improving digital access, a key indicator of SDG 9, which encouraged improvement in industry, innovation and infrastructure. It stated, “Opportunity2030 finds that securing full digital adoption in Nigeria – a combination of mobile phone subscription rates and Internet connectivity – would require private-sector investment of around $47.4bn. “Achieving universal access to power (a key SDG 7 indicator) represented a $32.3bn private sector opportunity. “This took into account the proportion of the Nigerian population currently lacking electricity access (46 per cent), projected population growth, and the growing demand for power as the economy develops.” It said the opportunity in the water and sanitation sector was smaller, but still impactful. Around 45 per cent of the Nigerian population still did not have access to clean water and sanitation (a key SDG 6 indicator) and closing this gap by 2030 would require significant investment, with an opportunity for the private sector to provide around $5.7bn of the funding, it added. The Chief Executive officer, Standard Chartered, Nigeria, Lamin Manjang, said, as Africa’s largest economy, and with a rapidly growing population, Nigeria represented an excellent opportunity for investors looking to fund infrastructure projects that would secure long-term returns whilst improving the lives of its citizens. He said, “The SDGs are also a key focus for the Nigerian government. “Opportunity2030 provides an important map of the SDG opportunities for private sector investors looking to invest with impact and improve the lives of millions of Nigerians over the next decade.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com