Maureen  Ihua-Maduenyi The Lagos State Government and a property development company, Echostone Nigeria, are set to deliver about 252 homes as part of efforts to address housing deficit in the state. The housing units would be the first joint venture housing scheme under the current administration in the state. The collaboration, which is targeted at providing 100,000 homes in four years in Lagos, started with the construction of 2,000 housing units in Idale in Badagry, Ayobo in Alimosho and Imota in Ikorodu LGA. Echostone said it had concluded the construction of 252 units of two-bedroom flats in Idale, Badagry. The Commissioner for Housing, Lagos State, Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, said he was impressed with the new development, which he described as a cheaper way of building houses. He said, “It is something that we are very proud to be associated with and we are happy that this is the first joint venture that this administration will be delivering. Moving forward, we can only continue to do more; we cannot stop at this stage. “We can see that Echostone is capable, and they know what they are doing. And we are happy with this collaboration. We can only improve on what we have presently. And that is why I said that we are thinking of using the technology to grow to about two-three floors, to enable more people to benefit.” Akinderu-Fatai stated that he was also impressed with the quality of materials used in the construction. The Special Adviser to the Governor of Lagos State on Tourism, Art and Culture, Bonu Saanu, said innovation and technology were the way forward in reducing housing deficit. “By the time these over 200 blocks are put to use, it will surely go a long way to reduce the housing deficit in Lagos,” he added. The Director of EchoStone Nigeria, Mr Sammy Adigun, said the firm would meet the housing needs of Lagos residents with the support of all the relevant stakeholders without compromising on quality. According to him, EchoStone takes only 14 days to build each home with high quality and full complement of world-class infrastructure. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 