Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has accused the state government of being insensitive to the security challenges and the  welfare of the people of the state. The opposition party said Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had been encouraging the influx of Fulani herdsmen into the state. The Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, Mr Zadok Akintoye, told journalists in Akure that the All Progressives Congress-led administration had nothing for the state. He added that Akeredolu had performed below average. He said there was an indication that the government might know about the coming of the 200 armed Fulani herdsmen to Ajowa Akoko community in the Akoko North-West Local Government Area of the state, recently as the governor never denied the earlier allegations of planning to bring herdsmen to settle in the state. Akintoye said, “There were allegations against this government that it was planning to bring in Fulani herdsmen to settle in different parts of Ondo State and those allegations have not been denied or debunked by the government. “For instance, we asked why the chief security officer of a state would not be able to mitigate the settlement of Fulani herdsmen in Ajowa Akoko.” According to him, the current administration in the state has no more idea of what to do to move the state forward, adding that the administration also lacked transparency and accountability. “For us as a political party, we are not expecting the APC government to perform better than it has done in the last two and a half years because the key indices for human development have not been tackled. “In governance, the administration of Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has not also shown itself to be transparent, to be open and to be accountable to the people,” Akintoye alleged. READ ALSO: Buhari must surrender power in 2023, PDP reacts to New Year message But the state chairman of the APC, Mr Ade Adetimehin, said the allegation by the PDP was mischievous. He said the people of the state were enjoying the Akeredolu-led government, particularly in the area of infrastructure. He said, “’Akeredolu has done a lot in the area of security and welfare of the people. The security challenge facing the state before had been adequately addressed. “The PDP only wants to speak so that people could hear the party talking. Achievements of Akeredolu in the last two and half years have silenced the opposition. Move around the 18 local governments of the state, there is no sector that Akeredolu has not touched.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com