Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, on Monday, flayed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.),  and the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, over the continued detention of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and his wife, Zeenat. They told Buhari and El-Rufai that the day of reckoning was fast-approaching. Addressing a press conference on Monday in Kaduna, a leader of the IMN, Yunusa Lawal, said, “We would like to let El-Rufai and his master know that the day of reckoning is very near indeed. Justice will be served and no amount of blackmail and misuse of state power could avert this whirlwind of justice from catching up with them all. “We will intensify our peaceful campaigns until justice is done to the victims of Zaria genocide of December, 2015 and Sheikh Zakzaky and all those still being held regain their freedom.” The IMN, also known as Shi’ites, criticised the statement by the Attorney General of Kaduna State, Aisha Dikko, that the state had no intention to withdraw the charges against El-Zakzaky, who is standing trial at the state high court. She had insisted that the fate of the Shi’ites’ leader would be determined by the court. Lawal alleged that since the detention of El-Zakzaky, the government had continued to fabricate lies to justify the continued incarceration of the IMN leader and his wife. “With the increasing pressure on the Buhari regime from home and abroad, occasioned by the decision of the International Criminal Court at The Hague to investigate the crimes against humanity committed by this regime during the Zaria massacre of 2015, there have been increased efforts at belittling the matter and trivialising the issues.” Lawal claimed the Kaduna State governor was bent on ensuring that charges were fabricated against the IMN leader at all costs. “In this his warped position, he insinuated that so long as he remained the Kaduna State governor, Sheikh Zakzaky would remain in detention. According to the governor, Sheikh Zakzaky is being tried for crimes he and his followers committed in the last 30 years in Zaria,” he said. READ ALSO: Nigeria hasn’t learnt any lesson from civil war – Soyinka, others Lawal noted that despite the court acquittal of other members of the sect on similar charges and the pressure on the government to release them became so intense and unbearable, the government thought of charging them with inciting his followers to commit alleged offences. He said, “Firstly, the fabricated charges of inciting, aiding and abetting brought against him have been quashed by the high and appeal courts. “Secondly, the Federal High Court had declared his detention as unconstitutional and therefore ordered his release. The government has remained in contempt of that order. “Thirdly, even when the Kaduna High Court granted the Sheikh medical leave, El-Rufai never conceded. He took measures to thwart the medical bail, putting stringent terms and conditions, independent of the courts.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com