Daud Olatunji ,Abeokuta Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Thursday, has dedicated his achievements both in the military and as a civilian president to God. Obasanjo spoke at a Thanksgiving Service organised for him by the Christian Association of Nigeria, Ogun State Chapter, saying God has been faithful to him. The Thanksgiving Service was held at Chapel of Christ the Glorious King, on the premises of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta. The former president stressed that he would continue to do things that will make God show him mercy. He attributed his success in the military regime and in the civilian government to God’s divine mercy. Obasanjo expressed appreciation to God for his achievements in Nigeria and the world at large. He said, “God has done a lot for me. I want to do things that will make God show His Mercy on me. I can’t lie to God. “Those of you who know where I was born, how many of you know Ibogun-Olaogun? The village where I was born is so small that no matter how large you make the map of Nigeria, Ibogun-Olaogun will never appear. “And yet, somebody born in that village of pure illiterate parents, will have the opportunity that I have now, to reach the stage that I have reached, to be used to achieve whatever I have been used to achieve, I cannot thank God enough.” “I always say this, whatever I have achieved, whatever I have done, I thank God because it is not me alone, there are those who have worked with me, some of them are dead, some of them are still alive and without them, I will not have been able to achieve much. On an occasion like this, let us just thank God and keep thanking God.” In his address, Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, attributed his victories at the tribunal, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court to God’s mercy. He pledged that his administration would be accountable and transparent with all financial records. Abiodun, however, called on residents to coorperate with his administration in the development of Ogun State. The governor described Obasanjo as a world ambassador, global icon and a son of Ogun State whom everybody is pleased with. He urged Nigerians to emulate the lifestyle of Obasanjo. Abiodun promised that his administration would govern the state with the fear of God. In his goodwill message, the Bishop of Egba Anglican Diocese, Emmanuel Adekunle, advised Nigerians to desist from anything that could ruin the country. Adekunle attributed Nigeria’s failure to disobedience of the rules of God. He advised that, rather than lamenting on the unfavourable condition of the country, Nigerians should follow the commandments of God. Dignitaries at the thanksgiving service included former governor of Ogun State, Gbenga Daniel; former governor of Ekiti State, Olusegun Oni; and the President, African Development Bank, Akinwunmi Adeshina. Others are a business mogul, Chief Kessington Adebutu; former Speaker, Ogun State House of Assembly, Suraj Adekumbi; and the governorship candidate of Action Democratic Congress in the last election in the state, Gboyega Isaika among others.