Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A truck conveying yam has crushed four persons to death and injured four others at the Pipeline junction in the Ogere Remo end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Remo-North Local Government Area of Ogun State. Our correspondent gathered that the accident, which involved the truck with number plate TKP 653 XA, occurred around 4.30am on Thursday. The Public Relations Officer, Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the crash. Akinbiyi said the truck driver, who was coming to Lagos from the northern part of the country, lost control of the vehicle. The TRACE spokesman explained that the Man diesel truck was conveying 14 passengers, presumed to be the owners of the goods and who sat on tubers of yam, when the accident occurred. Akinbiyi said the driver suddenly lost control due to excessive speed and poor visibility; hence the vehicle fell on its side and crushed four of the passengers to death. He explained that the four injured passengers and the driver of the truck had been taken to the Idera Hospital, Sagamu. He stated, “The casualty was much because some of the passengers, who were also the likely owners of the yam, were sitting on tubers of yam in the open space at the back of the truck, thus when the driver lost control due to excess speed and poor visibility, the truck fell on its side on the passengers. “The vehicle has been taken to the Police Motor Traffic Division, Iperu. However, the driver was among the injured. “While TRACE commiserates with the families of the dead and the injured, motorists are advised to maintain their vehicles very well, avoid excessive speed and night travels if possible, especially now that that the harmattan season is here with poor visibility everywhere.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com