Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The  Islamic Movement in Nigeria condemned  the “provocative” airstrike on Iraq  by the United States on Friday, killing   Iran’s most powerful military commander, General   Qasem Soleimani, and Iraqi paramilitary chief, Abu 4. According to the IMN, popularly called  Shi’ites, Soleimani’s killing  is   a “declaration of war” on Iran. The group said in a statement  by  its  President, Media Forum, Ibrahim Musa,  “For quite some time, President Trump has been looking for ways to drag the Iranian nation to a senseless war. “We strongly condemn this provocative airstrike ordered by President Trump.” The group  said the US  would not achieve their goal with “this great crime”. They added, “We strongly condemn the provocative airstrike ordered by President Trump that led to the death of the Iranian top General, Quaseem Soleimani, and the Iraqi Commander, Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis. “The duo were martyred following a drone strike specially ordered by President Trump, whose action has dangerously put the world on the edge of a very destructive war. “The US, God willing, will not be able to achieve any of their goals with this great crime. Rather, all of Hajj Qassem’s goals will be accomplished by the greatness of his soul and blood. “This will be accomplished by his brothers, children and students from resistance men and Mujahideen from all the people of the world that reject humiliation and submission to the tyrants of this century. “Indeed, Hajj Soleimani will forever be remembered because he led the destruction of  ISIS terrorism that the genocidal US regime created, trained, armed and sustained. He was an enigmatic General who led from the front line and was an active supporter of the Palestinian freedom cause. “He was an ardent anti-imperialist who gave the United States and their stooges in the region sleepless nights, both in terms of ideas and more importantly at the battle fronts that they prompted.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 