Ebenezer Bajela The League Management Company has finally reacted to the violence that erupted during the Nigeria Professional Football League tie between Katsina United and visiting Pillars at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium, Katsina last Wednesday. The match ended 1-1, with Seun Yusuf putting Pillars ahead in the 34th minute, before Tasiu Lawal drew level for the home side 10 minutes later. According to report, at least two Kano Pillars fans were left seriously injured on Wednesday, after angry home fans went berserk. The LMC, in a statement released on Saturday said it was looking into the matter as they await reports from relevant authorities. It said  it would help them to punish the perpetrators  and also set out strategies to prevent future occurrence. “The League Management Company has been engaging the relevant authorities in respect to the unsavoury incident that occurred within the city of Katsina after the Match Day 15 NPFL match in Katsina between Katsina United and Kano Pillars,” the statement reads. “We are still awaiting the on-the-spot report from relevant authorities on the breach of public order in Katsina city said to be associated with rival fans of Katsina United and Kano Pillars. “As the incident allegedly happened after the match within the city, the LMC is awaiting the report from the police authorities and other protocols such as identification of the culprits, and medical reports  of the three persons reportedly injured  to enable us have an informed opinion on the actions to be taken, not just to sanction  the perpetrators  but to set out strategies and corrective actions to eliminate this dangerous rivalry between the fans of the two clubs to avoid future occurrence. “It must be pointed out that the initial reports on the incident emanating from both clubs and match officials are at variance and conflicting. In the circumstance, a police report is absolutely necessary to help establish the veracity of the various accounts and bearing on the case of the reported breach of public peace. “Meanwhile, the LMC is also reviewing various reports put out in the social media by both clubs in the aftermath of the game with a view to curtailing reckless and inaccurate accounts of events in the NPFL.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  