Raphael Ede, Enugu The Enugu Command of the Nigeria Police Force on Friday, paraded two suspected child traffickers who specialised in moving children from Plateau State North to River State. The state Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdurrahman, who paraded the suspects at the police headquarters 8n Enugu, said the suspects were intercepted alongside the nine children on January 4, 2020 in a luxury bus. Abdurrahman gave the names of the suspects as Mrs Rebecca Nwachi, 40 and Pastor Isaac David. He told journalists that they were arrested by soldiers at Orba Military Checkpoint in Udenu Council Area of the state. He said the soldiers who intercepted them were on “Operation Atilogwu Udo 1’’ exercise. The CP noted that the army authorities handed over the victims and suspects to the command on Friday for further investigation. The victims rescued, according to Abdurrahman, are four girls and five boys between the ages of two and 13 years. He said, “We also have another suspect, Pastor Isaac David, who arranges the children being trafficked for Nwachi from Barkin Ladi Council Area of Plateau State. The CP said the police were still tracking the end receiver of the trafficked children, one Blessing, who allegedly runs an orphanage in Port Harcourt, River State. “This is a type of organised crime where children are trafficked from the northern part of the country to the South-East and South-South. “This syndicate runs their illegal business using orphanage as a cover-up. “We have reached and contacted the parents of the trafficked children and some said that they gave their children to the pastor on condition that he will provide better welfare and education for them. “Some other parents said they did not know when their children moved out of their homes and they have declared them missing for some time now. “While at the end receiver’s point, only God knows what these children are used for; some might be used as sacrificial lambs, child labour; and others subjected to a lot of criminal activities. “Parents especially people in Plateau State should be wary of the whereabouts of their children. They should endeavour to take care of their children by themselves.” The CP said the children would be handed over to their parents after investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com