Oluwaseun Osowobi is a young leader with five years’ experience in gender equality advocacy and gender-based violence. The Executive Director of Stand to End Rape initiative, an organisation advocating against gender-based violence, is one of Time Magazine’s ‘100 Next’ for 2019. Also a Vital Voices, Obama Africa and Women Deliver Fellow, she tells TOLUWALOPE KAREEM about her career and what drives her You are an Obama Foundation emerging leader. In what way has that made an impact on you? As an Obama fellow, I have learnt the importance of leadership to myself and others. During the fellowship, I was trained about leadership– not just as a visionary but leading as someone who genuinely cares about my community. One’s style of leadership determines the type of results one would get. I learnt how to find resources within my community and how to be sustainable. This has really impacted my skills as a leader because Obama teaches you to lead for yourself and others– you must be representing your community. You cannot represent your community and forget to bring them on board. What inspired you to start the Stand to End Rape initiative? I was inspired to start STER in 2013 because of my personal experience and also seeing other survivors not understanding the type of support they require or what they can do in a case of rape or assault. I was spurred by the desire to enlighten people on how they can protect survivors and also help to prevent sexual violence from occurring. I started writing about sexual violence in 2013 and by 2014, we became an organisation that provides full support to survivors. We help to reduce and eliminate sexual and gender-based violence in society. As the Executive Director of Stand to End Rape initiative, what are your duties? My duties include strategising on what the organisation is going to do, helping to frame our programmes, implementing our strategy and ensuring that we are in line with our mission and vision statement. More importantly, I serve as the brain that coordinates other efforts towards the implementation of our goals. I am like the chief servant of the organisation, who is coordinating the efforts of other young persons working to create change in the movement. Despite being so prevalent, gender-based violence is largely underreported because of stigma and lack of access to resources and support systems. What is your take on that? Gender-based violence is under reported because as a nation, we are yet to have a standard system for holistic support of survivors. The social systems and legal framework are lacking to ensure that more survivors of gender-based violence can report cases and this stems from our culture of silence. Our society shames people who have experienced any form of gender-based violence or even silences them in the name of protecting them. It is believed that if one doesn’t share one’s story, nobody would know about that part of one’s life and one gets to protect one’s family name. More importantly, the dearth of holistic support and resources is one of the reasons people cannot step forward. In a family where the husband insists on the wife being a housewife and she is experiencing domestic violence, the woman would be economically dependent on the man and it would be difficult for such a person to talk about her experience. That is why we keep advocating for a very holistic support system. Looking at the spectrum of gender-based violence, we are trying to ensure that anyone who suffers harassment or sexual violence from relatives or even strangers can receive the support that they really need. We assess the cases that we have had to see how we can better structure our response system in Nigeria. What drives you? I am driven by the need for a better society and the need for us to get to a point where rape becomes part of our past as against being a part of our everyday life. As a gender equality advocate, I believe in the capacity of women to contribute fully to society without fear of discrimination and violence. If women experience violence, the perpetrators of such deplorable acts should be brought to justice as a way of deterring other people from committing the same offence. So, basically, you can say I am driven by the need to create sustainable change in my community by contributing my quota to build a better system to everyone. Do you think rape victims often get justice in Nigeria? When we talk about justice for survivors of sexual violence, it varies– it could be legal, economic or emotional justice. (On one hand), I would say that the survivors usually get justice but I wouldn’t say they get adequate legal justice. As you may know, our prisons are full and it’s not a reformative system– it’s just about putting people behind bars without helping them become better people when they come out of such a place. We really need to look into that because when someone is thrown into jail for raping another person, there is no system or structure in place (in prison) to help them unlearn their past behaviour and relearn good practices. Rather, they go in and come out even worse because they would have experienced so much in prison that would leave them angry or frustrated. Needless to say, there are certain things we need to look at, going forward. What forms of support do you get in running the organisation? STER initiative has been running (for the past five years) through the support of Nigerians and some international donors. There are people who give us part of their wages and salaries. We hope that this year, we can get more support and volunteers to work with us. We need a lot of professional volunteers across board– lawyers, accountants, auditors, mental health specialists, psychologists, medical doctors, researchers among others. What does success mean to you? Success (to me) means creating a better society and being able to fulfill my own purpose. I don’t believe in existing for oneself alone but for the society because everyone has an inbuilt change mechanism in them. Also, being able to help Nigerians understand what holistic prevention and response system for gender based violence mean is success for me. Who are your role models? Over the years, I have been inspired by a number of people but my first role model is my mother who taught me what it means to be hard working, loving and caring to the people around me, which invariably inspired my advocacy life. Also, I am inspired by some women such as Oby Ezekwesili, Ayisha Osori and Amy Oyekunle. What is your take on the recent sex-for-grades (and sex-for-admission) scandals that rocked the University of Lagos and University of Ghana recently? We (STER) worked with BBC to bring that documentary to light– gathering evidence, filming and other things. What we aimed to do with the project was to highlight the dearth of a holistic system in place to deal with sexual harassment in tertiary institutions and also to drive the need for the sexual harassment prohibition bill to be passed by the National Assembly. For us, it was an important documentary to do for people to see how manipulative some people in power (in that case, lecturers) could be and how people have been affected by sexual harassment. What is your educational qualification? I studied Local Government and Development Studies at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria (Kaduna State) and I have a Master’s degree in International Relations from Swansea University, United Kingdom. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 