Wale Oyewale, Ibadan A former Vice-Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Professor Emeritus Ayo Banjo, has said unstable calendar is one of the main problems besetting higher education in the country. Banjo, who was chairman, Committee of Pro-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities, spoke at the 10th Sigma public lecture in honour of the ‘oldest living Old Chief in Sigma Club, Prof. Biyi Afonja (retd.) at the University of Ibadan on Saturday. The don, in a lecture titled, ‘Nigeria youth and students social organisation in the first republic and in the 21st Century: What has transpired?’, noted that the fate of the youth of a country mirrored the attitude and disposition of the country. He said, “When society is forward-looking and optimistic, it is prepared to invest in youths as the leader of tomorrow. But when the larger society appears to have lost its way and stops looking beyond itself, the youth, in utter disappointment, are left to look after themselves. “It is, therefore, hardly surprising that youths of the era of independence had started mournfully describing themselves as a wasted generation. The old brigade had stoutly refused to yield ground to the much better educated and more energetic youths.” The don said while he acknowledged the fact that underfunding was the bane of the Nigerian university system, “exactly how underfunding wreaks havoc on institutions has hardly been examined in fine details.” He said, “Without adequate funding, we cannot have the quality of laboratories and libraries comparable with the best globally. Severe underfunding also affects the quality of infrastructure, which in turn affects welfare and aesthetics. “Given these unwelcomed features in the universities, it is hardly surprising that between the staff and their employers, and between the students and their vice-chancellors, there is recurrent unease. “One very worrisome result of this siege mentality is that the calendar varies from university to university, and from year to year. Yet, a stable calendar spanning October to May is a defining character of the university globally.” In her reaction, Ambassador Folake Marcus-Bello, described those in her age grade (age 55 to 65) as the mothers of digital children and the children of the analogue, saying the youths of today are trapped in the web of confusion. She said, “Unless our calendar is looked into, our children are going to be isolated. During our time, we could travel to visit our contemporaries who are undergraduates in other parts of the world. That is no longer possible because the university calendar in Nigeria has become unstable so it is no longer practicable for the learners to visit their counterparts in other parts of the world during long break.” Afonja, Professor of Statistics, was the first recipient of the Sigma award since the birth of the club 70 years ago. The Alake of Egbaland, Oba Michael Adedotun Gbadebo, who extolled the virtues of the recipient of the award, urged new members of the club not to rubbish the integrity of the old club. In attendance on the occasion were the first female Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Folake Solanke; Mr Segun Adediran; Chief Presenter, Olumuyiwa Talabi; Prof. Ope Adekunle; Prof. Gbemisola Oke, wife of the awardee, Mrs Ayoola Olusola; Prof. Moses Adeniji, Prof. Titi Filani and Rasheed Afonja. Also in attendance were Prof. Solomon Fagade; Chief Bopo Osuntokun; and Mrs Cosiba Osunkoya. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com