The Secretary-General, Yoruba Council of Elders, Dr Kunle Olajide, tells FEMI MAKINDE in this interview that the visa-on-arrival policy introduced by this regime is a major threat to the nation’s security and economy How would you assess Nigeria’s 20 years of democracy? Our democracy in the last 20 years has not been particularly impressive especially in the last six years or more. We started making some gradual progress in 2007 when the Late Umaru Yar’Adua came in as the president. Unfortunately, death took him away and former President Goodluck Jonathan came in. We also made some progress when Jonathan came but since the advent of the Muhammadu Buhari regime, the progress has been slow. In fact, I can say we are retrogressing. The reasons for these are not far-fetched; we are not out of the military psyche yet. Let us look at it from this way, General Olusegun Obasanjo came in 1999; General Buhari also came. Even when Yar’Adua was there and Jonathan, we had David Mark, a retired military officer as the President of the Senate and some retired military officers held other key positions. We still have a handful of retired military officers in the National Assembly and everywhere till now. I think the last couple of years have not been impressive and there are clear indications of gravitation towards dictatorship. The examples are not far-fetched. For example, our Head of State went to Cairo, Egypt and announced that as from January 1, 2020 all Africans can come to Nigeria and would be given visa on arrival. This policy was not debated at the National Assembly and the policy is coming when security is a big challenge to us; when we are under-policed; when unemployment rate is alarmingly high and poverty is everywhere. Can you imagine that, Mr President just went there and announced straightaway that our borders are now open to visitors from all over Africa. That is acting before thinking. But we must open a new lease in 2020 and make our democracy a liberal democracy and people-centred. It should be the government of the people by the people and for the people. Acting before thinking as well as speeches from the apex must be seriously curtailed. We have representatives of the people and they must deliberate on issues concerning the people. Are you saying Nigerians have not been participating in the decision making in the country? People have been at the fringes and not participating. Some policies do not appear to be people-centred at all. People are not factored into the decisions-taking process by the government. How do you think this can be stopped? There are a number of things that can be done to stop it. Number one is that the media should be more active; the civil society organisations must be very active; and thirdly, the National Orientation Agency which has offices in all local government councils in the country should be alive to its responsibilities. You can hardly feel the presence of NOA. In the colonial era, our regional governments had vehicles with loudspeakers which they took to villages to tell people about what the government intended to do and other things like that. I recall this was done all over the Western Region. So, what I am saying is that the NOA should be properly funded so that the agency will be able to reach every nook and cranny of the country and to be able to educate Nigerians irrespective of their villages what the government is planning to do.  The agency should educate Nigerians to know that they put the government in place and they should hold the government accountable. I discover that Nigerians are very docile and most people think the nation is owned by those in Abuja or those at the apex but this is not true. Nigerians should be made to know that when they elect representatives to the state Houses of Assembly; National Assembly; governorship offices and presidency what they are doing is that they are releasing partial sovereignty to the elected officials because sovereignty resides with the people.  Our people must know that the government belongs to them. If they know this, they will not sell their votes to somebody who just comes around when elections are coming and distributes some meagre amount of money to them. The people own the money and it is not the senators’ money or governors money but the money belongs to the people. This is why I am saying that the media; the civil society organisations and the NOA must be more effective. They should educate people to know their rights. Until they know their rights and are ready to defend them, the situation in the country will not change. You said now Nigeria is sliding into dictatorship. When did this start? This started in the last few years if not the past one-and-a-half years. Appointments were made without any recourse to the Federal Character chapter in the constitution. The people, the media are talking and nobody listens to them. Government is being run like their personal property. No, it is not anybody’s property. This is the most embarrassing; the President announced that any African wishing to come to Nigeria is free to come without any visa. There is no way you can prepare for such an open-door policy. In fact, at the time the announcement was made, our land borders were closed and you can now see the contradiction. That tells you that not much debate is going into the decision making of the government and that is what you have in a dictatorship. Lawmakers should have deliberated on such and public hearings held; the media ought to have been briefed and they will analyse it, those in academics too will analyse but nothing like this was done. I was shocked when I heard it because this is not the kind of policy we need when there is a terrible security challenge in the country. This can further compound the security situation, unemployment problem and further stress the under-staffed police that we have. We have been declared the poverty capital of the world and this is an invitation to poor people from other poor nations in Africa to come and compound the problem. The beauty of democracy is that people are allowed to examine issues very critically, criticise and commend on issues. We must check this. Buhari’s regime has been accused of disobeying court orders. El-Zakzaky is being held despite orders of the court to release him. Don’t you think his followers may become violent if he dies in detention just like Boko Haram members did when their leader was killed in detention? I don’t want to zero in on El-Zakzaky or anybody in answering your question. But the judiciary is supposed to be an independent arm of government in a democratic system of government. The legislature is also supposed to be independent but what we have in Nigeria since the homes of judges were invaded at midnight hour shows something else. As far as I am concerned, the Nigerian Bar Association did not do much to check that. What happened that time was meant to intimidate the judiciary to make them believe that the judiciary is subservient to the executive.   The Chief Justice of the Federation was removed unceremoniously and that independence of that arm of government which is supposed to check the excesses of the legislature and the executive was subverted. I think one of my saddest days was the day the President said the security of the nation was above the judiciary or the rule of law. We all know that the security he talked about would be threatened if there is no adherence to the rule of law. The judiciary is an arm of government and this arm of government also knows that the security of the nation is very paramount. The executive is not the super power among the three arms of government and we must know this. Look at Donald Trump, when he became the President of the United States, within the first month in office he issues two executive orders but court upturned those orders and he complied. It was even a High Court and not the Supreme Court and Trump obeyed the court. So, if we want to join the civilized world, we must begin to obey the laws and court orders. The world is viewing Africa through the lenses of Nigeria and that is why we must begin to act responsibly.  The invasion of the courtroom during Omoyele Sowore’s trial is not recommending us to the outside world and the world has become a global village.  The independence of the three arms of government must be assured and the arms must be funded well and be autonomous. Each of them must know the limit of its power and that is when democracy can grow. There has been public outcry against the approval of N37bn for the renovation of the National Assembly complex. Will you say the outcry is justified or not? That is indefensible especially with the state of our economy. No matter what anybody is saying, that is not what anybody can defend. This is a reflection of two things: the first thing is the size.  The second thing is that the structure of the National Assembly and the cost when it was built were way out of our economic reality in Nigeria.  Our National Assembly does not have to be like the Capitol Building in the US. Ours should be a reflection of our economic reality. So, it was built way out of our economic reality and I read in newspapers that a substantial amount of money is spent to renovate certain aspect of it every year. N37bn is a substantial part of some states’ budgets’ states that have a population of three million people or some even have five million people. This huge amount of money for the renovation of the National assembly complex is not defensible in any way. They have to either do the renovation in phases or the parts that are very important that must be renovated, but not renovating everything with N37bn at once. Spending such a humongous amount of money on the renovation of the National Assembly complex in a country described as the world capital of poverty cannot be defended by anybody. How would you assess the security situation in the South-West now, compare to what happened some months back? Will you say herdsmen attacks and kidnapping have been drastically curtailed? Herdsmen attacks in the South-West have reduced but we can say it has been completely stopped because some days ago, a group of herdsmen entered into a community in Ondo State and the youths had to chase them back.  It has been minimised anyway and we hear less of attacks and kidnapping these days. That is encouraging and the South-West states said a security outfit codenamed Operation Amotekun will start operations on January 7 or so. We must be on the guard and this visa-on-arrival policy will compound the security issue. Anyway, I am waiting and I pray the National Assembly will suspend the policy because it is unacceptable. Are you saying this policy is a threat to our security? It is not just a huge threat to our security as a nation; it is a huge threat to our economy; it is a threat to our unemployed youths. I think we should stop playing the big brother’s role in Africa when in reality we are worse than some of these countries on the continent. What advice do you have for the South-West security outfit that is going to be inaugurated this week? I think we should wait to see the form it will take but I can say this kind of state police arrangement should be started not only in the South-West but in other regions of the country. I don’t know why we are running away from it. We are running a federation with diverse peoples, cultures, beliefs and they are insisting that such a country should be run as one country, it is not done anywhere in the world. So, my advice to the South-West security outfit is that the outfit should be peopled by South-West people who know our history, culture and religion and not bringing those not familiar with our culture. Also, they must be very civil in their approach and must be supervised effectively so that some of them would not become power-drunk. How do you assess the way security agencies deploy modern security devices to tackle  security in Nigeria? I don’t think we are using enough of modern technology to police our country. For example, there should be a central control room where they can know what is happening many miles away. With this, helicopters can be deployed in areas where crisis is brewing. There should be modern security devices to monitor what is going on in our forests across the country.  But these are not happening because of inadequate funding and even corruption. A substantial part of the funds allocated to the security agencies ended up in private pockets. We have numerous problems confronting us as a nation and we have to start tackling them one after the other. But what I have not seen is the sincerity on the part of the leadership to address these problems. The political elite of Nigeria irrespective of political parties they belong have conspired to impoverish the people. This is because whenever they are sharing loots at the National Assembly, there is no difference between the APC and  the PDP lawmakers. It is a conspiracy on the part of the political elite to impoverish us and keep us at this level but this cannot continue like that forever. They cannot continue to exploit like they have been doing in the past 20 years, time is running out. Based on this, will you say the anti-corruption war of the Buhari regime is effective? We have made progress but not the type of progress one would expect in five years. There are human factors affecting the anti-corruption war. You will remember that one female head of service was asked to go based on allegation of corruption and if there is corruption at that level, you can imagine what the situation will be at a lower level. You are an advocate of restructuring. How would you suggest the restructuring should be implemented? Anybody who says he doesn’t know what restructuring means is a deceiver. We are all supposed to be familiar with the history of Nigeria. We know how Nigeria was before Independence and how it was post-independence. The march to the progress of Nigeria was truncated by the military in 1966, that was during the military coup. The civil war broke out in 1967 and the exigencies of the civil war made it imperative for states to be created and 12 states were initially created. Then because of the prolonged military rule, the federalism we practised in the First Republic was crippled. It was the military intervention that crippled the federalism we ran in the First Republic. We made tremendous progress in the First Republic because there was healthy competition among the regions. Without being immodest, it is the progress which the South-West made between 1954 and 1966 in the education sector that has continued to keep us far ahead of other regions in the country till today. Our diversity should be our strength and it should not hold us back but the colonialists realised the endowments of Nigeria before Independence; they manipulated our census figure and violated the world demographic principles that say that populations increase to the coastline where there is vegetation. But in Nigeria, the reverse is the case but Harold  Smith the colonial officer at that time  in his memoir released about 15 years ago said the Home Office in London directed them to compute figures to favour the North with the hope that they would still remain in the North to continue to exploit Nigeria. That was how the seed of discord was sown. There is nowhere in the world where population increases towards the desert except in Nigeria. What we are saying with the restructuring is that the states, as they are now, should be made the federating units at least for now; we should also pass appropriate bill to the National Assembly and powers which were taken away to the centre at gunpoint in January 1966 by the military should be restored to the states and local government areas. There should be restoration of powers back to the states which is the starting point. Secondly, states should begin to explore their resources and proceeds should be deployed according to their priorities.   Priorities differ; the priority of some people may be going on pilgrimages whereas the priority of others may be the development of education, infrastructure and provision of good healthcare system for the people and so on. You cannot decree our priorities from Abuja, for instance, the road that passes in front of my house in Efon Alaaye Ekiti is a federal road  but when will a federal officer ply that road? The road from Ado-Ekiti  through Aramoko to Osun State and so on like that is a federal road, one of the bridges there has collapsed in the past six weeks and people are just finding an alternative to it , nothing is happening there and that is why I am saying roads in each state should belong to the states and they must have adequate resources to maintain those roads and many other things. The allocation formula should be re-jigged and federal should not have more than 20 something per cent instead of the 50 something per cent it is now. The Exclusive Legislative List in the First Republic had only 15 items but now it has about 55 items. Do you think the presidency will come to the South in 2023 from the way things are going? I don’t want to think otherwise, the presidency has to come to the South in 2023 for the following reasons. One, we are more divided in Nigeria today than 15 years ago and where such divisions exists, there can’t be progress. One ethnic group will be undermining the other. We haven’t built a nation out of this country and that is why we must respect the zoning arrangement. Anybody who wants something different from this is an enemy of the country. So, which of the geo-political zones in the South should it be zoned? That depends on what I call political expediency. We have just two major political parties in the country and others are just parties on paper.  The party in power should respect what will definitely keep Nigeria together as a stable country and they should encourage the zone where they have huge support i.e the South-West to produce the president in 2023. I will be very happy if it comes to the South-West. Yoruba people are a very welcoming group of people and it is shown in all our major cities. I think South-West is the most appropriate to produce the president in 2023. What is your view on the border closure? The border closure is an admittance of failure of institutions. So, border closure should be a temporary thing, it is not supposed to be forever. What you need to do is to restructure your institutions to make them more effective and the moment you do that, you open the border because people must move. Once you admit that your institutions have failed, it is an admission that the leadership has also failed and once the institutions are restructured for a more effective performance, open the borders and let people move. One thing that I want to stress is that the Federal Government and the various states should invest more in human capacity development; That is health and education- they are very crucial. Secondly, states must be encouraged and empowered to generate electricity because of inadequate power generation and supply is at the root of this economic crisis and unemployment problem. If the power supply is good, our economy will bounce back within one year. So, privatization of electricity companies should be reviewed because they were sold to incompetent persons who lack sufficient funds. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 