Enyioha Opara, Minna Over 2,500 residents of various communities in the Munya Local Government Area of Niger State have been forced out of their homes as a result of incessant attacks by bandits. The situation was worsened by last Sunday’s attack, which left an army officer and three soldiers dead. Our correspondent gathered in Minna, the state capital, on Tuesday, that the bandits had taken over the Kabuka community and converted it to their operational base. It was learnt that the displaced persons, most of whom are women, had taken refuge in a primary school in Sarkin Pawa at the local government headquarters. Other communities affected by the attacks are Ingu Kasa, Anguwan Bussa, Galuwi, Almujere, Toko, Anguwan Zarumai and Anguwan Kwata. The attacks also affected communities in Katarma and Kuduru in the Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, which shares borders with Niger State. Residents from the two communities have also taken refuge in parts of Niger State. In response to the situation, the Niger State Government has deployed additional security agents in the affected communities, who are already on the trail of the bandits. Meanwhile, the State Emergency Management Agency has opened a temporary camp for the displaced persons at a primary school in Sarkin Pawa and has provided some relief materials for those taking refuge in the camp. The Director-General of the agency, Ibrahim Inga, told Northern City News that food items, sanitary and sleeping materials had been provided to ameliorate the sufferings of the people. Inga, who paid a visit to the area to ascertain the number of casualties and the plight of the displaced persons, stated that over 100 bandits invaded the communities on about 50 motorcycles. The DG, who was silent on the number of civilian casualties, explained that the residents informed him that the bandits rustled about 500 cattle from the affected communities and were looking for safe exit routes, but were currently scattered in Mangoro and Kabula in Zazzaga. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 