Chidiebube Okeoma and Gibson Achonu The Imo State Police Command has invited one Chief Ken Egwuasi for questioning over the killing of the Imo North senatorial candidate, Ndubuisi Emenike, on Sunday by an operative of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Sydney Oguzoro. The NSCDC officer was attached to Egwuasi, who accompanied Emenike to a function in the Isiala Mbano Local Government Area where the NSCDC officer shot him dead. The police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, told one of our correspondents on Wednesday that the command had invited Egwuasi for questioning over the incident. He said the command was not leaving any stone unturned in unravelling the circumstances that led to the killing of the politician. Ikeokwu said the state Commissioner of Police, Olaniyi Fafowora, had mandated the investigating department to ensure that all those culpable in the killing were made to face justice. He said, “Yes, I can confirm to you that we have invited one Chief Ken Egwuasi for questioning over the killing of Ndubuisi Emenike on Sunday in the Isiala Mbano LGA. READ ALSO: Femi Adesina did not change “The NSCDC officer who fired the gunshot that killed the politician was attached to Chief Ken Egwuasi who followed the deceased to the venue where the incident took place. “We have invited him and his statement has been taken. The CP mandated the investigating department to ensure that the circumstances that led to the killing of the politician are unravelled. We are not leaving anything to chance. The NSCDC officer is in our custody and the investigation continues.” Meanwhile, the state NSCDC  Commandant, Mr Raji Ibrahim, has sympathised with the people of the state over Emenike’s death. The commandant told the people to be calm and go about their civic responsibilities, adding that the corps would not leave any stone unturned in the investigation into the matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com