Enyioha Opara, Minna The Niger State Police Command has arrested a 43-year-old man, Abbey Alfred, of Tudun Fulani, Minna, for alleged possession of forged certificates. The suspect was arrested by the operatives of the State Intelligence Bureau of the command following a tip-off. It was learnt that the suspect was found with two university degree certificates, one purporting to belong to the River State University, Port Harcourt, and the other to the Adamawa State University, Mubi, both bearing the same date of graduation. Northern City News gathered on Sunday that the suspect specialised in forging certificates of Nigerian universities. Further checks revealed that the suspect claimed to belong to the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis, also known as the Rosicrucian Order. In an interview with our correspondent, Alfred admitted to certificate forgery, which he claimed was his source of livelihood. According to him, he succeeded in gaining employment at the Asari-Toru Local Government Area of River State with one of the forged certificates. He stated, “I have been in this business for more than five years and cannot stop it because I have no other thing to do. I forge certificates for people looking for jobs; certificate forgery is my profession. “I ventured into producing fake certificates to help people, who cannot pass their degree exams, to use them to get jobs so that they can take care of their personal demands.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Muhammad Abubakar, who confirmed the incident, said the suspect had confessed to the crime. He added that the suspect had succeeded several times in getting jobs with forged certificates before he was arrested. According to him, two degree certificates, an exemption certificate of the National Youth Service Corps; offer of appointment letter from the Ikwere Local Government Area, River State; Local Government Service Commission certificate, Federal Inland Revenue Service taxpayer identification number and Corporate Affairs Commission certificates of registration of business names were recovered from Alfred. Abubakar said the suspect would soon be charged. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 