Tony Okafor, Awka An 11-year-old pupil of the Patterson Memorial Grammar School, Awada, Onitsha, Anambra State, Chigozie Anyichie, has been burnt beyond recognition. It was gathered that the deceased, a Junior Secondary School 1 pupil, was inside the dormitory when the incident occurred, while the others went for devotion. “Properties worth millions of naira were destroyed in the inferno, while the deceased was burnt beyond recognition,” an eyewitness told our correspondent. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident to PUNCH Metro. He said the cause of the fire and the value of the property destroyed had yet to be ascertained. Mohammed stated, “One Rev. Dr. Kajetan Anuforo, the Principal of the Patterson Memorial Grammar School, Awada, reported at the Awada Police Station that there was a fire outbreak in the school at a section of the dormitory when the pupils were out in the field for prayers. “The fire, which completely burnt down a dormitory block, was eventually extinguished by the concerted efforts of the staff and pupils of the school. “However, when the dust settled, it was discovered that a JSS 1 pupil, identified as Chigozie Dim Anyichie, 11, who did not go out with the other pupils for prayers, was caught up in the inferno and was burnt beyond recognition. READ ALSO: Teenager arraigned for weapons possession “Police detectives led by the DPO, Awada Division, Tony Adeyi, visited the scene and took the victim to hospital, where he was certified dead by a doctor.” Mohammed added that the corpse had been photographed and deposited in the mortuary for post-mortem examination. “The Commissioner of Police, John Abang, has commiserated with the family of the victim and ordered a discreet investigation to ascertain the circumstances surrounding the incident,” Mohammed added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 