Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Kaduna State Police Command on Wednesday confirmed that gunmen attacked the Emir of Potiskum, Alhaji Umar Bubaram, on the outskirts of Kaduna along the Kaduna-Zaria Expressway. The police said six people including the emir’s aides were killed while the emir and four others sustained varying degrees of injury  in the attack which occurred at about 2.45am on Wednesday. He added that the injured had been taken to the Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital in Kaduna for treatment while the remains of the dead had been deposited in the health facility’s morgue. Spokesman for the Command, DSP, Yakubu Sabo, confirmed the incident in a statement on Wednesday. He said the gunmen in their large numbers, dressed in military uniform, on sighting the escort vehicle of the monarch, shot indiscriminately at commuters. Not done, the police chief said the gunmen abducted some of the people and took them to an unknown destination. The police spokesman said, “The Kaduna State Police Command received information through the DPO Maraban Jos that, at about 22.45hrs, he got a distress call from a good Samaritan that some unknown armed men in large number dressed in military camouflage intercepted some commuters on the outskirts of Kaduna along the Kaduna-Zaria Expressway. “He said on sighting the escort vehicle of the Emir of Potiskum, Alhaji Umar Bubaram, the hoodlums started shooting indiscriminately at the commuters and took some yet-to-be identified persons to an unknown destination. “Upon receipt of the information, the command immediately mobilised team of operatives with Armoured Personnel Carriers to the scene where some victims of the attack were rescued to safety but sadly six persons including four aides of the emir were reported dead while five others sustained varying degrees of injury. Both the dead and injured victims were taken to the Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital for deposit and treatment.” The spokesman said the state Commissioner of Police, Umar Muri, had directed that more police operatives be deployed along the axis to reinforce the existing operational units of SARS Anti-Kidnapping and Police Mobile Force personnel. He equally alerted intelligence gathering units in the area to redouble their efforts to ensure that the victims were rescued unhurt and the culprits were arrested and prosecuted. “The CP also visited both the scene of the incident and the injured persons including the emir at the Barau Dikko Hospital with a view to fortifying security deployment along the axis and to assure the victims of the police current efforts on the incident. “The command assures members of the public that it will ensure the safe rescue of the victims of this ugly incident and calls on the good citizens of the state to continue to support the command with relevant information that could help the police to fish out criminals from our midst,” Sabo said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    