Rasheed Bisiriyu Sitting for too long is said to be bad for one’s health. Sitting raises one’s risk of heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol, WebMD, an online health journal, warns. This may have informed the decision by a premium automaker, Jaguar-Land Rover, to develop a car seat that could trick drivers/passengers into thinking that they are walking while sitting during a journey. Jaguar Land Rover on Thursday revealed the latest creation from its research and development labs. A report by caradvice.com says while this seems somehow counterintuitive on the surface, it holds some benefits. The JLR calls the innovative design a ‘morphable’ seat where actuators in the foam mimic the rhythm of walking. “Each seat can be suited for different drivers, much like memory seats currently found in modern cars,” the report states. The JLR Chief Medical Officer, Dr Steve Iley, is quoted as saying that the reason the automaker is doing this is that 1.4 billion people or more than a quarter of the world’s population are spending more time in seats than on the pavement, and this can shorten the muscles in the legs, hips and gluteals, leading to back pain. He says, “We are using our engineering expertise to develop the seat of the future using innovative technologies not seen before in the automotive industry to help tackle an issue that affects people across the globe.” By simulating the rhythm of walking, a movement known as pelvic oscillation, the technology can help mitigate against the health risks of sitting down for too long on extended journeys, says a report by carandbike of Auto NDTV Another online auto journal, cnet.com, gives the detailed features of the special seat as explained by the manufacturer. It says, “The ‘morphable seat’ features a never-ending loop of micro-adjustments from actuators in the seat foam. These adjustments make your brain believe that you’re actually walking…Tricking the brain with some fake pelvic oscillation could keep your muscles stimulated. “The automaker imagines the system could be tailored to each passenger for total comfort while the seat makes its adjustments over a long journey.” This is not the first health beneficial car the JLR has introduced. Previous projects are listed as those helping to reduce the effects of motion sickness by changing the car’s dynamics and cabin settings, and using ultraviolet light technology to help prevent the spread of colds and flu. “It’s part of JLR’s ‘Destination Zero’, which has a goal of making people safer and healthier while looking after the environment,” says the report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 