John Ameh and Kamarudeen Ogundele The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday praised the former interim Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Bisi Akande, for upholding the free education and healthcare philosophy of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo. Buhari, in a message to congratulate Akande on his 81st birthday, wished him “longer years, good health and more strength to keep serving the nation.” The President called on all APC members to join the former governor of Osun State in praying for a longer life and to continue to guide the younger ones on the right path. This was contained in a statement by Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina. It read, “The President joins all members of the governing party, government and people of Osun State, family and associates of the elder statesmen in celebrating the virtues of selflessness and sacrifice he consistently projects. “President Buhari congratulates the former governor of Osun State for upholding the philosophy of the great nationalist, former premier of western region and leader of the Unity Party of Nigeria, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, in advocating free education, health care and entrepreneurship, and following up with counselling of leaders on same path. “The President believes that Chief Akande’s rich experience in public service and politics will go a long way in moving the nation forward through wise counsel, and setting a good precedence in leadership.” Meanwhile, the APC  also congratulated Akande, on his 81st birthday. The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, said it appreciated the sacrifices Akande alongside other founding fathers made in the formation of the APC and promoting progressive politics in the country. The statement read, “Today, we celebrate an astute administrator, father figure, voice of reason, a grass roots politician, and an exemplary elder statesman. “Our great party recognises the efforts of Baba Akande alongside other founding fathers in the formation of the APC, our Change Agenda and in entrenching progressive politics in the country. “The APC has tasked Baba Akande and other members of the party’s recently-constituted National Reconciliation Committee to meet with aggrieved party leaders and bring lasting peace and reconciliation across party ranks. “We count on Baba Akande to bring to bear his experience and goodwill in achieving the committee’s mandate.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    