Nike Popoola Insurance operators have said that the recently signed finance bill has addressed the major tax challenges that were affecting underwriting business. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), recently signed the 2020 Finance Bill into law. Before then, the insurers had been agitating for changes in some aspects of their tax responsibilities in the countries’ laws which they termed contentious. The President, Nigerian Insurers Association, Mr Tope Smart said, it is quite exciting for us because it had been a serious burden on insurance industry. “But now that the finance bill has addressed all the issues is it a good development for the sector.” Another operator said, “The bill has taken care of the sections on insurance that had tax issues. However, the insurers overhead will rise because insurers will pay Value Added Tax for the insurance brokers.” Some are the aspects are the taxable income for life insurance business under Section 4(a) of the Finance Bill 2019, which limited the investment income captured for tax purposes to income derived from the investment of shareholders’ fund. According to any analysis by PWC, a research firm, this provided a current year exemption from tax for investment income earned on funds obtained from policy -holders and not shareholders. It noted that there was a question around the effectiveness of this incentive given that a major percentage of income streams earned by life insurance businesses were tax exempt based on the income tax regime such as income from treasury bills, government bonds among others. There was also a tax planning opportunity in relation to funding investments during any financial year. An area of ambiguity could also arise as a result of the lack of definition of the term ‘shareholders’ fund, it stated. Under the life insurance (minimum tax), this provision of CITA was deleted as the former provision rendered ineffective the benefits of earning tax exempt income by life insurance companies. The elimination of provision would have a positive impact on insurance businesses, PWC stated. Under the general business, the bill proposed that the claim for reserve for unexpired risks in a financial year should be calculated on a time apportionment basis of the risks accepted during the financial year. This sought to ensure that the tax deduction obtained was in line with the requirements of section 20(1)(a) of the National Insurance Act. However, these were all overridden by the requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards. Going forward, the claim would be based on the unearned premium reserve. The inclusion of the phrases ‘time apportionment basis’ and ‘risks accepted during the year’ were indications that only a treatment that aligned with the financial statements would be acceptable. This meant that the position taken by some insurance companies whereby a deduction was taken during the year for the balance of the reserve in the statement of financial position would no longer be possible According to the PWC, “The proposed changes will drive positive growth in the industry and encourage foreign direct investment into the sector. “This will also reduce the cost of compliance for insurance companies as ambiguous sections of the law are either eliminated or amended. “The proposals also reduce uncertainty of tax treatments and the need for negotiation with tax officials which could sometimes provide an avenue for compromise.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com