James Abraham, Jos The Plateau State Secretariat of the Peoples Democratic Party  in Jos  was on Monday locked up following a  fresh leadership crisis between  the factions. The development which occurred in the morning was said to have caused confusion among party supporters and other stakeholders who gathered at the secretariat to condemn the situation. Recall that  the party in the state had been polarised into two factions since the resignation of the former Minister of Sports, Mr Damishi Sango, as the state chairman. It was led on one hand by a deputy chairman, Mr Amos Gombi, while  another faction is being led by a zonal chairman, Mr Chris Hassan. Both Gombi and Hassan are laying claims to the state party chairmanship position. The factions also placed suspension orders  on members from either side  at various times. They hold their separate meetings at the party headquarters despite the leadership crisis However, on Monday, the entrance to the  party secretariat was allegedly locked on the orders of the Gombi-led faction obviously to prevent the Hassan’s group from having access to the party secretariat. It was further gathered that the prompt arrival of security operatives from the police headquarters who ordered the barricade at the party secretariat  to be removed, prevented both factions from engaging in a bloody clash. A PDP lawmaker representing Jos South in the State House of Assembly, Mr Fom Dalyop, told our correspondent on Monday, “What happened at the party secretariat was a case of one man trying to hold the PDP in the state to ransom. It is unfortunate that some people do not want peace in the party. “The  PDP constitution  is clear on which zone   the chairmanship of the party should come from.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  