Adelani Adepegba, Abuja Amnesty International has blamed the failure of the government to protect people from attacks and intimidation by violent gangs for the loss of 60 lives in various Rivers State communities in 2019. It noted that the victims were killed in the Khana and Gokana local government areas of the state. The human rights group in a statement in Abuja on Thursday by the Director, Amnesty International Nigeria, Osai Ojigho, said its findings indicated that the government did not do enough to protect the communities from attacks. It read in part, “Our findings show that the government is still not doing enough to protect people in these communities from attacks. “The killers are literally getting away with murder while no one is being arrested or punished for these crimes.” AI noted that the authorities had failed to bring those responsible for the crimes to justice and had allowed a climate of impunity to fuel further violence. Ojigho said, “We call on the Nigerian authorities to take more robust action to stop these attacks by investigating every clash and bring perpetrators to justice. “The government has an obligation to defend and protect the people; its failure to provide security for the people in Rivers State, especially in the Emohua, Khana and Gokana local government areas, and its failure to investigate and prosecute those responsible for these killings created an atmosphere of fear and bloodshed in the region.” Amnesty International stated that the rise in cult-related violence was a result of the government’s failure to arrest and prosecute perpetrators. It said, “Residents told Amnesty International that on August 4, 2019, three people were shot dead in Bodo when armed gangs attacked the community. An environmental activist Baribefe Bornu, 39, was one of the victims killed alongside Giobari Thomas and Barivale Amos.” The group also revealed that the spate of killings had left at least five people dead in Rumuodogo community in the Emohua LGA. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 