Sodiq Oyeleke Super Falcons and FC Barcelona attacker, Asisat Oshoala, has reacted to her emergence as the African Women’s Player of the Year. While Oshoala emerged as the CAF’s women’s best player, Liverpool and Senegal star Sadio picked up the top award for African Men’s Player of the Year. They were crowned at a star-studded ceremony in the Red Sea resort of Hurghada in Egypt on Tuesday. Oshoala was named women’s player of the year for a record fourth time. She beats South African Thembi Kgatlana and Cameroon’s Ajara Nchout Njoya to win the award staged at Hurghada, Egypt on Tuesday. Oshoala, who scored in FC Barcelona Women’s Champions League final defeat to Lyon, was delighted to be recognised. Though she missed the awards ceremony, Oshoala and her family members engaged her fans and followers on Twitter as the event was ongoing. A few hours after the award, she tweeted, “Grateful to be African Women’s Player of the year for the fourth time. “(I) thank God, my family, friends, and fans for the support. Big shout out to my club, my management, teammates at both national team and club level and of course thanks to @CAF_Online for the opportunity.” Early Wednesday morning, Oshoala also resumed her tweets on the award, hinting that she went through some challenges in her career. READ ALSO: CAF Awards 2019: Oshoala emerges best women’s player for fourth time “Four times baby!!! Sometimes you forget to smell the roses along the way in life. I’m always the type thinking about my next move and never really stop and celebrate the things in between. This is such an amazing accomplishment and I’m happy. “But there’s still work to do,” she added. Lamenting that she missed the awards ceremony, she said, “If you see the native wey I been wan wear …..chaiiii ….e maaaadddd…..as in maaadddd…..but Alhamdulilah (glory be to God) still.” Also, Oshoala’s younger sister, Mide, was elated that the footballer equalled Perpetua Nkwocha’s record. The PUNCH reports that Oshoala was earlier crowned the winner in 2014, 2016 and 2017 and has equalled the record of her mentor and compatriot Perpetua Nkwocha, who was decorated four times – 2004, 2005, 2010, 2011. “Their father. We are here to break the record. Allah’s got us,” Mide tweeted adding a celebration emoji.