Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja Singer Orezi has asked a transport service provider, Bolt (formerly Taxify), to pay him N100m as compensation for the injuries and losses he suffered in an accident while using the service. Orezi, in an a pre-litigation letter, signed by his lawyers, Abimbola Fakeye and Ifeoma Odum, said the accident occurred on December 6, 2019. The singer, whose name is stated as Orezi Allen, said he was picked up by a Bolt driver identified as Olamilekan Aina in a Toyota Corolla with number plate, EPE 450EV. The letter read, “Our client informed us that on December 6, 2019, about 5.41pm, he, in the company of his younger brother, booked a trip to Murtala Muhammed International Airport via his account on Bolt app. “Our client informed us that one Mr Olamilekan Aina with phone number, 09071902297, in a Toyota Corolla with the number plate, EPE 450EV, accepted the ride and picked him up at his location. “We were further informed that it was raining that morning and in the course of the trip, the driver refused to take note of the weather conditions and how that would affect the roads and other road users and despite several pleas from our client to be careful, the driver got involved in a ghastly head-on collision with a Toyota Camry SE. “Our client, who was seated at the back, was severely injured with his jaw broken and bled profusely. He sprained his neck and had to be put in a cast. He missed his show and lost income therein. He had to be on bed rest for a significant amount of time to heal and recover.” Orezi said Bolt breached its duty of care when it allowed a clearly incompetent driver to operate its app. He said the only reason he decided to board the vehicle was because Bolt had vouched for its competence. The musician said due to the loss of income and medical bills he had incurred, he would be seeking damages. The letter further stated, “Our client therefore demands the sum of N100m as damages for death scare, medical bills, down time and lost income occasioned by the reckless and negligent acts of the Bolt driver. “You have seven working days from the receipt of this letter to pay the stated sum of N100m to our client, failing which we will institute the necessary court action to recover the sum.” The singer attached photographs of his injuries. The PUNCH reports that Bolt, which is one of the leading transport service providers in the country, states in its terms and conditions, that it cannot be held liable for any damages caused by the driver to the passenger. Article 6.6 states, “The financial liability of Bolt in connection with breach of contract will be limited to 500 euros. You will have the right to claim for damages only if Bolt has deliberately violated the contract. Bolt will not be liable for the actions or inactions of the driver and will not be liable for damages that the driver causes to the passengers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 