Success Nwogu, Abuja A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Ahmed Gulak, has raised the alarm that Boko Haram terrorists have devastated Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. He said educational, business, agricultural and socio-cultural activities had been crippled in the affected states. He also said government, medical and educational activities were only functional in the state capitals. Speaking in an interview with our correspondent in Abuja on Sunday, Gulak also said claims that normalcy had returned to the troubled areas were incorrect. He said, “Nigerians are being killed. It is not only the military, but civilians are (also) being killed. In the North-East, Adamawa, Yobe and Borno states, you will be frustrated with what is happening. “Our people are not being giving the opportunity to go to farm and farming is the economic base of our people. “You cannot go one kilometre off the road, where the military are being stationed, to go and farm. “The poverty that is prevailing in the North-East is better imagined than said. Schools have been closed, no more schooling in most parts of these three states. “What everybody is telling you is balderdash. You go to Borno State; you only go to Maiduguri and find functional schools, hospitals and government institutions, all in the state capital. “It is the same thing if you go to Adamawa. In my local government, Madaga, Boko Haram attacks have become a daily affair. “We are all frustrated. Children of school age are no longer going to school. Schools have been destroyed.” Gulak, who is a former Special Adviser to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan on Political Matters, said the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had not done enough to address insecurity, corruption and economic challenges. CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com