Chukwudi Akasike Charity, wife of a factional leader of the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People, Fegalon Nsuke, has called on the Federal Government to order the release her husband, who was arrested on Thursday. Nsuke was said to have been arrested at a checkpoint in Akpajo, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State by the Inspector-General of Police Special Tactical Squad. His arrest came two days to the annual Ogoni Day, where the MOSOP president would have addressed the people of Ogoni on their struggle. Mrs Nsuke also called on civil society organisations to prevail on the former president of MOSOP, Legborsi Pyagbara and the Commander of the IGP Special Tactical Squad, to release her husband, saying he had done nothing wrong to warrant his detention. She explained in a statement on Saturday that her husband’s predicament had to do with the lingering crisis surrounding the leadership of MOSOP. She stated that Pyagbara’s tenure as MOSOP president ended on December 31, 2018, adding that he (Pyagbara) decided to remain in office, even when her husband had emerged as MOSOP president through a “valid election.” Also, Fegalo Nsuke’s sister, Mrs Lebura Olawale, who spoke in a telephone interview with Sunday PUNCH, expressed surprise that “an innocent man could be whisked away like a criminal because of his position in MOSOP.” Olawale said she was more surprised when the Commander of the IGP STS told him that his brother was arrested for arson. However, Pygbara told our correspondent that he had nothing to do with Nsuke’s arrest. He said, “They (the police) can arrest anybody on any grounds. The issue today is Ogoni Day. Anybody can be arrested but they know that if they mention my name. they will make it big. The IGP Commander, Special Tactical Squad, Mr Lawal, confirmed Nsuke’s arrest but could not tell our correspondent the reason why he was arrested. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, also confirmed the arrest. It was, however, learnt that preparatios were on to move Nsuke to Abuja. Meanwhile, a source close to the IGP Special Tactical Unit in the state disclosed that there were moves to get Nsuke out of police detention on Saturday night. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 