Femi Makinde The leader of the Yoruba World Congress, Prof Banji Akintoye, has said Yoruba people will challenge the declaration of Amotekun as illegal by the Federal Government in court. Akintoye, who is a renowned historian said in an interview with one of our correspondents that his group would wait until today to hear the position the South-West governors would take on the development. The leader of the YWC said he had spoken to scores of lawyers who told him that the Federal Government’s pronouncement on the South-West Security Network codenamed Operation Amotekun was illegal. Akintoye said, “We will wait till tomorrow morning to hear what our governors will say. However, Amotekun is no longer the affairs of the governors alone, it has become a property of the Yoruba people. “We Yoruba people will respond to the position of scores of lawyers I have spoken to about this is that the action of the Federal Government itself is illegal. “All the lawyers said the action of the Federal Government was illegal and that the Yoruba people should pursue it in court. “We will wait for our lawyers on how to pursue it legally. Meanwhile, the Yoruba Youth Socio-Cultural Association has said the Federal Government’s rejection of Amotekun had further confirmed that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is supporting the Fulani against other ethnic groups without hiding it. The National President of the group, Olalekan Hammed, said this in a statement on Tuesday. The statement read, “Everybody knows that the insecurity problem facing the country is largely being perpetrated by Fulani herdsmen and we (Yoruba) came out with a lasting solution. “But unfortunately, our initiative is being rubbished by the Federal Government. There is no doubt, Buhari does not want peace to reign in Nigeria. “The whole world can now see that Buhari is in support of the herdsmen terrorising our people. “It is either we restructure the nation or we have our own nation. “Our safety is no more guaranteed as all power seems to belong to herdsmen.”