President, Christian Association of Nigeria, Reverend Supo Ayokunle, speaks on the continued persecution of Christians and the rage of cattle herders in the land, the proposed introduction of common currency by ECOWAS states and sundry other issues in this interview with WALE OYEWALE The US government recently categorised Nigeria as one of the countries where religious tolerance was going on, but the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, and the Muslim Rights Concern disagreed, what is your view about this? Insecurity has led to the death of many people in Christian dominated areas like Benue and Taraba states, whose populations are made up of more than 90 per cent Christians. It is the same in Southern Kaduna with a population of more than 80 per cent Christians; Plateau State with a population of more than 90 per cent Christians and northern part of Adamawa – Mubi and Michiga – which are predominantly Christian dominated. We are in Baptist Church and they are so many there. Up till Friday, January 3, 2020, they were still battling for the soul of Michiga because insurgents wanted to take over the place. For somebody who is in this country, for whatever reason, to be saying that categorising Nigeria as a place where Christians were severely persecuted was wrong, I think that person was being economical with the truth. Now that we are in the dry season, more herders are coming down South with their cattle thereby fuelling anxiety about fresh clashes between farmers and cattle rearers; how can clashes be averted? What can be done is for the government to be sincere with the security of the people. One, our borders should be well policed. Immigration officers should be given queries if illegal aliens enter the country. Also, the Nigeria Customs Service should be made responsible if illegal weapons are brought into the nation. We have all the organs in place to take care of illegal migration but the government must be serious about it. Herders were rejected in some parts of Ekiti and the South-East due to fear of intimidation and killings while in Oyo State, cattle rearers took the government to court. What must be done to aid peaceful co-existence between the parties? I once met with the leadership of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria and we told them that if they really wanted peace in this country, migrating about on the land of other people could no longer be tolerated. What they needed was to get their own land. If you want to settle down in a community, approach the community (leaders) and buy the portion (of land) that you want to use. Raise your pasture and graze your animals there. That is what they should do. Gone are the days when you would take your cattle and march on the fields of people; the fields that don’t belong to you. It is trespass. For long, trespass was allowed but it can no longer be sustained. Since the herders have been wielding lethal weapons, guns, etc., and killing and maiming people; they are suspects and nobody who wants their life would allow them to roam about in their backyard. They should begin to buy land. We buy land to build houses, establish farms and do many other good things. Why can’t they also buy land? They need to be responsible. In the Oke-Ogun part of Oyo State, for instance, there were several allegations by farmers that despite lodging complaints about herders destroying their farms and raping their girls and women, there have been no arrests, what do you think about this? That is why we appeal to the government to do the needful because if the herders continue to take law into their own hands, the people they are trespassing on their lands or assaulting will turn back to fight them. It may become a free-for-all; a state of disorderliness and war if we are not careful. People are reporting them now but a time will come when people will begin to retaliate and that would not do anybody any good. So, government should take the bull by the horns and face the reality. In fact, the issue of settling them down in land dedicated for grazing, which the government talked about, would have been good if the government would not be the one to provide money for them to do it. This is because the government is not providing such good money for any other group, so why should they be given a special treatment? Are they a special breed in this country? It is disrespectful and inconsiderate to do that for them. Leah Sharibu and many other hostages are still being held captive by Boko Haram, what is the position of CAN on this? We have spoken again and again that the moral burden is on the government to get Leah Sharibu, in particular, released because when they were negotiating for the release of the Dapchi girls, the only reason why Leah Sharibu was left behind was because she was a Christian and had refused to renounce her faith. She refused to abandon her faith and because of that, the terrorists said they were not going to release her and the government allowed it to be. That was not fair. The moral burden is on the government, if we would not see them as part of those persecuting Christians, to get Leah Sharibu and all other people who are held captive out of captivity, whether they are Christians or Muslims. Some people have alleged that CAN has been too passive despite what Nigerians are going through, while others have said it has become too political, how would you react to this? By the grace of God, CAN has never reneged on its duty to speak for the oppressed. When we are talking about persecution of Christians and insecurity, insecurity does not know the religion you belong to. When armed robbers attack, they can kill anyone. What can you say about the prevalence of fake prophecies in the land, especially at the start of every New Year? That is very shameful. You will see that the people doing this, most of the time, are the commercial prophets who people follow – emergency prophets; they only use the name of Jesus Christ but don’t belong to Christ. Many of them don’t subscribe to the Christian Association of Nigeria; they are not part of us. A cross-section of Nigerians are apprehensive about the new government policy to issue visas to Africans on arrival in Nigeria just as having common currency in ECOWAS states is being proposed; what are the positions of CAN on these? (Having) common currency is part of the treaties that the Nigerian government signed with ECOWAS states but it should be handled with wisdom. If we are going to have common currency, we should ensure that it has real value attached to it. Two, visa on entry could be good and it could also be a time bomb. If the immigration officials would be patriotic to the nation and turn back unwanted visitors, there would be no fear. But in Nigeria, there is nothing people cannot do after being bribed. This is where I have my fears. Have we prepared the immigration officials to put the nation first before their pockets? Otherwise, you have created another avenue for the immigration officials to make illegal money and put the nation in danger. As the President of biggest Christian body in Nigeria, what can you say about 2020? God has given us the privilege to see a year that is loaded with hope. When I say it is loaded with hope, I am not unaware of the tight situation we are in Nigeria. The Lord just ministered to me from the life of children of Israel in the book of Jeremiah 29: 11, which says, “I know the thoughts that I have towards you which are the thoughts of good and not of evil to give you a future and a hope.” The recipients of the prophecy of hope were in captivity. The children of Israel were in the Babylonian captivity and it lasted for 70 years. Looking ordinarily at the physical circumstances, there was nothing exciting about the prophecy of Jeremiah that something good would happen to them but let me tell all Nigerians that this year, 2020, no matter the situation of the country, something good is going to happen in Nigeria and it will happen to each individual that believes. The mouth of the Lord has spoken it. I am aware that we are still battling with insecurity. Even recently, I heard bad news about the actions of the bandits in Katsina and insurgents. About six people were abducted. Thank God for security agents who rescued them. Apart from insecurity, we have the problem of mass unemployment. There is hardly any house where you don’t have an unemployed graduate. This is part of the situation we are battling with and it is because of many years of lack of implementation of development plans which could have given opportunities to young ones to get properly engaged. It is a challenge to our leaders; they need to think out of the box. Apart from mass unemployment, we still have erratic power supply and bad roads all around. Whoever is saying that we don’t have bad roads is being economical with the truth. I travel virtually every day and I know the stress we go through. When you travel on roads that supposedly good, there is also the problem of armed robbers and hoodlums attacking people. But the Lord says, “I know the thoughts that I have towards you. I know your situation.” Why should God give us something good this year? God is good. He doesn’t do evil. When you see evil happening, (know that) God is not behind it. He knows about it but He is not the author of evil. It is in doing us good that His name would be glorified. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com