Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin A 33-year-old Nigerian woman, Mrs Gloria Bright, who was rescued from Lebanon on Monday, has said she was promised $1,000 teaching job but was turned into a slave, doing domestic chores, in Lebanon. Bright, who hails from Eruku in the Ekiti Local Government Area of Kwara State, said she was made to work for a new master. The holder of National Diploma in Accounting said, “There is no job in Lebanon and there is no dollar in that country, but they tricked us to the place and made us to believe there was work there.” She advised Nigerian women to beware of travel agents that promised jobs in foreign countries. She spoke just as the Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps said it was investigating a list of 27 Nigerian ladies that travelled to Lebanon in search of employment. The NSCDC Commandant, Bello Ale, disclosed this on Tuesday in Ilorin while handing over Bright, who returned in the early hours of Tuesday, to the President of Eruku Progressive Union, Mr Shola Daniels. Ale said the repatriation of Bright was one of the successes recorded by the security agency in its investigation of alleged slavery involving Nigerian women. He acknowledged, however, that the repatriation was achieved through the Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission, and an NGO, Phemnick Life Support. READ ALSO: Pastor accuses TRACE of withholding motorcycle after paying fine The commandant said the presence of the 27 Nigerian women in Lebanon was revealed in a document retrieved from three suspects behind their ordeals. Among the victims were Ms Omolola Ajayi and Mrs Gloria Bright, whose videos as slaves went viral. He said the three suspects arrested were a Lebanese, Wasit Muhammad, 63 years; Adetunji Sanusi, 33 years; and a lawyer, Tunde Awwal, 27 years. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com