Ebenezer Bajela Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, has admitted that Cape Verde pose a threat after the two countries were paired together in Group C of the second round of the African qualifiers for the 2022 World Cup, saying it won’t be easy beating the Tubarões Azuis. The other teams in the group are Central African Republic and Liberia. The German, who missed the World Cup draw at the Nile Ritz-Carlton in Cairo on Tuesday, singled out the side led by Rui Águas as the team that could cause problems for Nigeria. Nigeria have met Cape Verde only twice, with the first tie, a friendly in 2013, ending in a draw, while the tiny island country emerged victorious against their more illustrious counterparts at the 2019 WAFU Cup of Nations, beating the home-based Eagles on penalties. And the 66-year-old believes that the quality in their team means that the Eagles will have to be on top of their game to beat to triumph against the Cape Verdeans. “I saw the groups,” Rohr told ESPN. “There are some very tough groups, when I see Cameroon and Ivory Coast together. “Our group is also a tough group, because Cape Verde is a very good team. They have very good players playing in Portugal, some of them in France. So it will not be easy to beat this good team of Cape Verde. “I am very confident but very careful at the same time. I am confident because our team is on the right way and they will progress. “We have to work very hard, prepare well, like we did at the last edition. It is very important to start well. When you win the first game, it is very good. But I am confident because our team is young and has some players already with World Cup experience.” The World Cup qualifying matches originally scheduled to be played in March will not hold until early October. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com