Olamilekan Oke, one of the suspected killers of the wife of the Managing Director of Maersk, Bernedett Tohouo, a Hungarian, on December 8, 2019, tells SIMON UTEBOR  about the robbery operation and eventual murder What is your name and what do you do for a living? My name is Olamilekan Oke. I am 32 years old. I am from Abeokuta in Ogun State. I am an electrician. I am married with two children. My wife is from Ijebu in Ogun State. I went to National Primary School and also attended a secondary school at Abule-Oja in Lagos State. When I was in secondary school, I was also learning how to repair air conditioners and refrigerators. Why did you kill the wife of the Managing Director of Maersk MD, Bernedett Tohouo? I did not kill my client intentionally. I was terribly broke and was thinking about what to do about my situation. I realised there was someone rich in our estate. I am one of the people that maintain the estate. I shared my thoughts with Adeyinka Akande, my friend, who was also complaining bitterly that he had no money and that things were difficult. I told him there were some foreigners living in the estate and that we should try to get some money from them. Also, my mother was sick and I did not have money. Ade embraced the plan because he was terribly affected by poverty. I told him I had a plan;  there was someone who wanted to have a party and he could use the opportunity to come into the compound. Were you there already on that day? Yes, I was on duty. Ade called me and I picked up the call. I asked to speak to the security guard at the gate to enable him to come in. When the security guard asked if I knew Ade, I said yes. He allowed him in. When he came, we planned to go upstairs but we were afraid. We started considering the action we were about take, if it would favour us. After thinking for a while, we boosted each other’s morale. We told each other that whatever we were able to get, we would use it to solve our problems. READ ALSO: I didn’t kill policeman, my friend did – Suspect What happened when you went inside? When we got inside, we told Gildas Tohouo (the woman’s husband) what he had to give us and that we were not there to harm anybody. Our aim was that anything we succeeded in getting, we would just take it and leave. But the Cameroonian said the money they had was not in their Nigerian account and that it was in foreign accounts. He said the only money they had in their Nigerian account was slightly above N100, 000. That was what he told me after checking his account balance on the phone. He volunteered to give us his phone and the Automated Teller Machine card and that we should go and collect the money there. We also went inside to call Bernadett Tohouo (the Hungarian) and told her about our mission but the woman said she did not have money. I also discovered that the woman recognised me. I asked the woman if they had any cash in the house but she said they did not have much money in the house. She said what her husband said was true. We followed her to an office in the house but she still maintained that there was no money anywhere in the house. Initially, we did not plan to kill her. When she told you there was no money, what did you do after that? I did not do anything but I thought she was lying. I told Ade what the woman was saying was a lie. Ade did not believe it. I also did not believe that there was no money in a big house like that. I told the woman that I had to go with her to ransack the whole house to ascertain the veracity of her claim. Already, we had collected the ATM card and the phone. It was an iPhone. She operated it and showed me her account balance. I followed her to the room and saw some coins and Cameroonian currencies. In the course of the whole thing, I saw one girl there and asked the girl where they kept their money. At that point, the woman’s countenance changed and she started arguing with me. I had a knife with me. The woman wanted to attack me and I pushed her back. It was when I pushed her back that the knife in my hand harmed her. Did you kill the woman because she knew you? I told Ade the woman knew me and that if we did not succeed in getting money or killing her, there was going to be a big problem. I killed her because she knew me. Moreover, there was no money to collect from them. Apart from the knife, what other weapons did you have? We did not have any gun with us. I have never used a gun. That was my first robbery experience. The incident of December 8, 2019 is the worst thing that has happened to me in my life. I regret the action. I don’t know what to call what has happened. Do I say it was poverty that led me into it or what? I am confused but it has happened. When I finished with her, I went down and ran down to my office. Immediately, I regretted my action and everything I did. How far is your office from their residence? It is in the same estate. We are the ones maintaining the estate’s apartments. How were you arrested by the police? When I left their apartment, I went back to my office. When I got to the office, I went to the toilet, thinking seriously about what I did. As I was thinking, I had a noise. It was that Ade had been caught. So I went out and presented myself to the police. Now that the law has caught up with you, are you ready to face the music? I know the consequences of murder. I am aware that anybody that kills someone will also be killed. I have made peace with my God. I didn’t know it would turn out this way. God should forgive me. In this case, if I can get God’s mercy or any mercy, fine; but if I not, so be it. God has the final say. READ ALSO: I’m prepared for consequences of my actions – Suspected killer Apart from the two of you, where are the other members of your gang? There is no other person, it was the only two of us. We don’t have a gang. We had not robbed before. It was the situation in which we found ourselves that day that made us to contemplate doing what we did. We did not know it would turn out this way. If you are taken to court, what would you tell the court? I will tell the court I did it, though unintentionally. Anything the court decides to do with me, I will accept it as my fate. Why did you choose the victim’s house out of all the houses in the estate? I thought that was the only place we could get something to enable us to move on. I just felt that was the place we could get money. Do you have any regrets? I have a lot of regrets. I keep thinking: does it mean I am not going to see my two children again? One of my kids is six years old and the second one is one and a half years old and I like them very much. Between jail term and death sentence, which one would you prefer if you had the opportunity to choose? I have realised my mistakes. If the government says I should go to jail, it is okay by me and if it says I should be sentenced to death, it is equally okay by me. I will accept whatever verdict passed by the court. I have already apologised to God for what I did. Since I was arrested and detained, I have had time to realise my mistakes. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com