Adelani Adepegba, Success Nwogu, James Abraham and Raphael Ede The Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria in the 19 northern states and the Federal Capital Territory, Rev.  Yakubu Pam, has alleged that Christians in  the  North   are under siege following the recent kidnapping and killing of Christian faithful in the area by Boko Haram/ISWAP insurgents. In a statement  on Wednesday, Pam  decried   Monday’s  beheading  of  the chairman of CAN in the  Michika Local Government Area  of Adamawa State, Rev. Lawan Andimi, by Boko Haram. Meanwhile, the  National Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs has  vehemently condemned Andimi’s killing by the hoodlums. Pam  said  the  development  was worrisome, adding that  the  abduction of Christians  by the Islamic sect  in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states, if not quickly arrested  by the Federal Government, would  send  the wrong signals  to Christian faithful  in  the North-West and North- Central geopolitical zones. The CAN chief said, “The situation on the  ground looks like the entire  northern Christians are “under siege”. “The inter-religious leaders in the North have worked so hard to bring Christianity and Islam adherents  to work closely with one another for  peace in the northern states in recent years. “The gains made are now being eroded with the recent development of upsurge of Jihadists on the loose  in the  North-East states.” Pam  called on the  President, Major General Muhammadu  Buhari (retd.),  to double his efforts in the management of the current situation in the North to avoid a  religious crisis in the region.” He  added that the recent  video released  by ISIS News Agency  showing a child of about eight  years carrying out the execution of  a Christian in an unidentified  outdoor area of Borno State  was frightening. He said the  underage terrorist   was seen in the video  warning  Christians to be ready to witness more  killings. According to him, this     has sent shock waves into the hearts  of Christian leaders and faithful in the North that their lives are not safe. In a statement by  its Head of Media and Communication, Aselemi Ibrahim, the NSCIA described the pastor’s execution as “barbaric and provocative,” adding that it was a ploy by the insurgents to incite Christians against Muslims in the country. The group condoled with CAN and the family of the deceased, calling on the FG and the security agencies to  protect lives and property. However,  the NSCIA cautioned CAN leadership to think through its public statements “so as not to play into the antics of the enemy”. Also, the  Archbishop of Enugu Ecclesiastical Province Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Most Rev. Emmanuel Chukwuma, has condemned Andimi’s killing, describing it as “callous and inhuman.” Chukwuma, who addressed journalists at the Cathedral Church of Good Shepherd, Enugu, on Wednesday, called for  the immediate retirement of all the service chiefs. The cleric said, “As church leaders, we totally condemn this act of killing. I call on the Federal Government to assure Christians in the North and church leaders that they are secure and make sure there is proper security. “We are calling for the termination of appointments of all the service chiefs who have over stayed in office. The FG should now stop deceiving Nigerians that  Boko Haram has been defeated or decimated which is not true.” On the  Supreme Court judgment that sacked  Emeka Ihedioha as Imo State governor and declared  Hope Uzodimma as the rightful winner of last year’s governorship election in the state, Chukwuma asked the Chief Justice of Nigeria to resign. He said,  “We sincerely feel disappointed with the Chief Justice of Nigeria who has not got his facts correct and we feel that, that judgment is wicked and corrupt.” The Nigerian Supreme Council for Ecclesiastical Affairs on Wednesday decried Andimi’s  killing. The Secretary, Elder’s Council, NSCEA, Bishop  Funmilayo Adesanya-Davies, said  in a statement it was sad that Pastor Dennis Bagauri of the Lutheran Church was also killed in Jereng, Mayo-Belwa area of Adamawa State. She called on the international community, especially the United States, to  come to the rescue of Christians in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com