Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The All Progressives Congress has described the protest embarked upon by the Peoples Democratic Party against the Supreme Court judgment in Imo State as disgraceful and senseless. The party said the protest was an attempt to create widespread hatred for the judiciary and to cause tension in the country. The APC urged relevant law enforcement agencies to immediately take the necessary steps to arrest and prosecute anyone making attempts to cause chaos and violence in the country while hiding under “dubious political protest.” The ruling party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, said it found the comments and actions of the PDP leaders on the judgment as indecorous, contemptuous and worrisome. “The disgraceful and senseless protest embarked upon by the opposition party is being done with the sole purpose of dragging the apex court of our land, and indeed our great country into odium and scorn before the international community. “We also view the irascible actions and irresponsible remarks by the PDP as a calculated attempt to overheat the polity. The PDP has become a present threat to our peaceful coexistence,” the APC said. The APC argued that the judgment was based on the facts presented by the parties and the law canvassed before it by their respective counsel. The statement read, “We know that the PDP will find justice served by our courts very hard to swallow because it had become accustomed to crooked manipulation of due process to its benefit and at the expense of the entire system. “For the records, the APC, through no fault of ours, even as the ruling party has suffered monumental losses in our courts in respect of elections conducted in 2019.” The party cited Rivers and Zamfara states as examples of elections lost to the PDP through court pronouncements. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  