Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has directed the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to establish agro-allied industries in each state of the federation. The Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum, confirmed the development during a meeting with a delegation from the Amana Farmers and Grains Suppliers Association of Nigeria. The association was led to the minister’s office by its Chairman, Haruna Pambeguwa. Katagum said the plan to establish agro-allied industry in each senatorial district in the country was part of government’s effort to achieve food security and stimulate economic activities. The minister said the Federal Government would give necessary support towards the development of the cotton, textile, and garment sectors of the economy. The textiles industry in the last few years had been facing various challenges which had resulted in the closure of over 150 textiles firms in Nigeria with loss of over two million jobs. Farmers and processors in the sector have had to deal with low quality seeds, rising operating cost and weak sales due to high energy cost of running factories, smuggling of textile goods, and poor access to finance. According to the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, smuggling of textiles goods alone is estimated to have cost the nation an import bill of over $4bn. The trade minister said, “Government is very much interested in growing the economy, looking at other areas like cotton, textile, garment, grains and tomatoes that we need to add value. “Mr President has directed that in every senatorial district, we should establish an agro-allied industry and we know some industries exist but you can assist us in identifying the agro-allied industries that will be suited for you.” On the border closure, she said the government had learnt a lot of lessons from the exercise, one of which was that Nigeria could produce what it needs. She described the border closure as a blessing to the country. The minister said, “It shows that we can produce what we need to eat and even export. “My appeal is that there are critical lessons we learnt. Let us not go back; let us continue with farming, even if we found oil in any part of the country.” She informed the delegation that there was a need for their products to be registered with the Nigeria Export Processing Council, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria as well as the Commodity and Export Department  in the ministry and other relevant agencies  for necessary  technical assistance. She said value addition and certification of the food produce  were vital  in order  to generate additional revenue as well as meet with international standards for export. The  AFGSAN chairman said  the delegation was in the ministry  to seek government’s support in order to enable them  to compete globally with their products. “We have those who can export their commodities, we are seeking your support and license so that we can compete globally,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com