CONCERNED stakeholders in Lagos engaged in acute reflection on Nigeria, 50 years after the end of the Civil War, last week. Fears that the ship of state is continually being assailed by ominous waves were expressed, as political leaders have failed to learn lessons inherent in that fratricidal conflict that claimed an estimated three million lives, according to New World Encyclopedia. Just after six years of independence from Britain in 1960, centrifugal tendencies violently seized the soul of the country: the political crisis in the Western Region; the January 1966 military coup; the counter-coup that followed six months after, which seemingly balanced the regional carnage of the first; the pogrom in the North that targeted mainly Igbo and other Southerners, and the failure of the political leadership to halt these spins of anarchy conflated to make the war inevitable. However, the war ended with the then Head of State Yakubu Gowon’s declaration of: “No Victor, no Vanquished.” It was a globally applauded rapprochement. The three Rs that followed: Reconciliation, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction, regrettably amounted to nothing but sloganeering. Today, the scars of that 1967 to 1970 debacle are very much evident in the landscape. No doubt, some sections of the country still hold the short end of the stick, typified in manipulations to their disadvantage in the allocation of resources, federal infrastructural presence and key political appointments. This explains why agitations for restructuring the country in tandem with the canons of federalism are deafening in the entire South and Middle Belt. The rise of ethnic militias and militancy in the oil-rich Niger Delta over its decades of neglect and exploitation of its oil resources, resulting in environmental degradation, stokes up the fire of discontent and division. In the South-East, groups such as the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra and Indigenous People of Biafra evoke separatist concerns. This downbeat mood informed strident calls by participants at the 50 years after the war event: Igbo in Lagos, Gowon, Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, Afenifere leader, Banji Akintoye, civil society groups and the Director-General, Northern Elders Forum, Yima Sen, for the country to rediscover itself. “Never again,” echoed the theme of the event. Soyinka, in his keynote address, said that was “an admission of an error, anomaly or a refusal to be stuck in a model of thought that discountenances the possibilities of human transformations…” He called for sober reflection. But Akintoye, a retired professor of history, saw things differently. Forthrightly, he observed, “We have good reasons to fear today that the character of the affairs of our country these days and the prevailing mood among us Nigerians are chillingly similar to the character of the affairs of our country in the months leading to our Civil War. The government of our country is being managed in ways that make it look like an exclusive preserve of a particular minority.” This perception is eerily dominant, suggestive of the leaders’ refusal to move the country beyond being a “mere geographical expression” clobbered together by Britain to an enduring historical reality. This predilection for self-destruction has compelled not a few eminent Nigerians to warn that no nation survives two civil wars. The failure of political leaders to be a rallying point for national unity, nation-building and cohesion has pushed a major actor in the war like Alani Akinrinade, a former Chief of Defence Staff, to regret his participation. The same loss of faith is often expressed by Theophilus Danjuma, a former Chief of Army Staff. In 2018, he shockingly advised Nigerians to defend themselves as the existing structure was incapable of guaranteeing their security. He accused the Armed Forces: “They collude with the bandits. They kill people, kill Nigerians; they facilitate their movements, they cover them.” Just last December at Ibadan, Danjuma threw another bombshell: “If I tell you what I know that is happening in Nigeria today, you will no longer sleep.” The difference between Danjuma’s privileged information and what is already in the public space might just be a matter of little details. The aggregate prevailing public opinion is that Nigeria, as presently constituted, is not a workable union, therefore, cannot deliver development. This was the kernel of the 2014 Political Conference report, which recommended devolution of power. Under it, state police, removal of the 774 Local Government Areas as part of the federating units and stopping financial allocation to them, among others, were canvassed. Insecurity has reached stratospheric levels. The killing of soldiers and police personnel by non-state actors and seizing of their weapons are embarrassing routine media headlines. Some of the states in the North-East and North-West – Borno, Adamawa, Yobe, Zamfara, Sokoto and Katsina – epitomise this absurdity. Kidnapping and robbery in other states are no less ferocious. These incongruities have corralled some states and regions to consider self-help. The South-West states have blazed the trail in Amotekun, which the Federal Government hypocritically declared illegal, amid its approbation of Islamic police – Hisbah – operations in Kano, Zamfara, Jigawa and other northern states. Indeed, the status quo is debilitating and confers undue advantage on a section of the country and its elite. At no time, therefore, has Nigeria been more fractious, lacking cohesion and its constituent parts mutually suspicious than now, as the orchestra of deception continues to reverberate. Germany, Japan, Rwanda and Ethiopia have experienced bitter wars in their history. But they rose from the ashes of destruction to become economic powers and paradigms in nation-building. In Africa, Rwanda’s rehabilitation and reconstruction are most rivetting after the genocide it witnessed. Under 25 years, it has balanced justice, peace, security, truth and trial of genocide suspects with reconciliation after a most brutal civil war to become a model in post-war social re-engineering. Human rights, national security, good governance and national history, at a time, were elements of public seminars in Rwanda that helped to change the psyche of citizens, birthed a new orientation and formed a platform that has built one of the fastest growing economies in Africa. It ended 2019 with a Gross Domestic Product of 7.8 per cent. Germany is the economic powerhouse of Europe despite its crushing defeats in two world wars. Japan, its Axis ally, reduced to rubble by the Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bombings, is a member of the G7 countries – leading global economies. Peace without justice is a grand illusion in national integration and modernization. To foster national unity and promote rapid economic growth, the socially inequitable and economically unproductive political structure should be reformed expeditiously. The alternative to it is dire. As the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), dithers on charting a new course for Nigeria in line with the change agenda he promised, the 13.5 million out-of-school children, the galloping youth unemployment rate, the ranking of Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen among the worst five terrorist groups by the Global Terrorism Index in 2015, the 1.9 people internally displaced by Boko Haram and the about 100,000 persons it has killed in 10 years, are sour indices of governance and emblematic of total systemic dysfunction. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   