Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Republic of Turkey is looking to increase its trade volume in Nigeria in road construction and engineering, the country’s Minister of Trade, Rushar Pekan, has said. Pekan, in company with the Turkish Ambassador to Nigeria, Melih Ulueren, and some Turkish investors, disclosed this at the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing during a courtesy visit to the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola. She said the purpose of the visit was to seek increased collaboration with the FMWH, describing Nigeria as one of the most important countries and the biggest economy in Africa. Pekan told her host that Nigeria had great potential in road construction and engineering, adding that her country was blessed with experts in the respective fields. She therefore urged the ministry to consider Turkish investors in the identified sectors. Responding, the Minister of State for Works and Housing, Abubakar Aliyu, said there was a need for more collaboration between Nigeria and Turkey for the development of both countries. Aliyu, who received the Turkish minister and her team on behalf of Fashola, said, “In order to achieve success in our development since Nigeria and Turkey have common development goals, there is need to share knowledge in technological investment. “We also need to collaborate in engineering design and construction for the purpose of providing infrastructure for development.” He told his guests that the ministry was willing to partner Turkey in the development of Greenfield and brownfield projects, mass production of affordable housing in selected cities, capacity development and mentoring in public private partnerships. Aliyu further noted that the FMWH was open to partnerships with local and foreign investors in the construction of roads across the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 