IN a country where records of medical feats are thin on the ground, a rare incident like the successful separation of conjoined twins calls for a deserved applause. This is perhaps why there has been so much excitement since the news broke recently of the surgical exploit performed by a team of Nigerians at the National Hospital in Abuja. Although there have been a few cases of conjoined twins separation in some tertiary hospitals in the country, the latest incident, given the interest it has generated, should surely inject some confidence in Nigeria’s health care system. Reports said it was a complex and sensitive operation that involved the separation of a set of twins fused in the abdomen and the lower chest. Posing a further challenge to the doctors was the fact that they also shared a common liver, while their intestines were “bulging out of the lower part of their tummy.” But, after a 12-hour surgery, involving 78 medical personnel, Goodness and Mercy, as the 15-month-old, healthy-looking girls are called, were successfully separated, triggering a media frenzy that reverberated beyond the Nigerian borders. The dangerous and complicated procedure was preceded by a successful plastic surgery that repaired the area where the intestines were sticking out, amidst fears of a possible infection. It was a feat that lifted a huge burden off the chest of the elated parents who would have been required to cough up about N20 million as hospital bills, had the procedure been done abroad. There were many reasons for celebration as the chances of survival of conjoined twins – children born with their bodies physically connected – are considered to be very slim. A report in The Telegraph of London put the survival rate at 25 per cent. About 54 per cent are stillborn or die shortly after birth, according to ScienceDirect, a website for medical and scientific research materials. Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia in the United States says 70 per cent of surviving conjoined twins are female. Generally, the chances of survival are higher if they have separate sets of organs. Although, with advancement in medical science, the chances of survival have improved drastically in recent times, yet when the heart is fused, as a rule, the twins cannot be separated. The University of Maryland Medical Centre says a case of conjoined birth occurs once in every 200,000 live births, and, in 75 per cent of the cases, at least a twin survives after surgery. However, the fact that Nigerian hospitals and medical personnel can exclusively handle such a complex and delicate procedure as the separation of conjoined twins is an indication of the potential in the country if the health sector is well funded. This was corroborated by the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire. Himself a medical doctor, the elated minister said, “This is a demonstration of excellent team work, which also shows that, with confidence in the health sector, we can do great things in Nigeria.” But for people to have confidence in the health sector, as the minister has urged, it has to start with a change in attitude by government officials who are always in a hurry to go abroad for treatment at the slightest health challenge. There has to be proper funding to deliver improved health infrastructure and stem the present exodus of medical personnel from the country. The Chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association, Lagos State Chapter, Saliu Oseni, said last year that between 50 and 60 doctors were leaving the state service every six months. As a result of doctors fleeing the country, one Nigerian doctor is now saddled with the burden of catering for the health needs of between 4,000 and 5,000 patients, according to experts. This is alarming and leaves little or no room for a thorough job. Against the World Health Organisation’s prescribed ratio of one doctor to 600 patients, Nigeria still has a long way to go. Curiously, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on January 3 urged Nigerians to shun foreign medical treatment. “Nigerians have suffered so much going abroad for medical treatment,” he said; but this was a statement heavily tinged with irony from a President who, in 2017, spent about 104 days at a stretch receiving treatment in the United Kingdom. With the health sector taking a mere four per cent of budgetary allocation, it is hard to see how things can improve. It pales miserably in comparison with the minimum of 15 per cent of national budget recommended under the Abuja Declaration of 2001. Outside the country, Nigerian doctors are appreciated for their exploits and are among the very best in the world. One of them, Olurotimi Badero, is recognised as the first and only doctor in the world to attain full specialist training and certification in both cardiology and nephrology. The Lagos born physician, who had his medical training at the then University of Ife, said, “By training, I specialised in internal medicine, cardiovascular medicine, invasive and interventional cardiology, nephrology and hypertension, interventional nephrology and cardiovascular medicine, nuclear cardiology as well as peripheral vascular interventions.” Another, and equally distinguished, is Oluyinka Olutayo, who, together with Darrel Cass, pulled off  a feat in 2016 when he brought out an unborn baby from the mother’s womb to surgically remove a life-threatening tumour. The baby whose heart had almost stopped beating as a result of the tumour was returned to the womb and, at the appointed time, the woman, Margaret Boemer, was miraculously delivered of a bouncing baby. With such distinguished Nigerians and many others not mentioned, Nigeria has no business rushing abroad for medical care. Agreed that the government alone cannot make it happen, yet it can provide a conducive environment. In India, the preferred destination for Nigerian medical tourists, most of the hospitals performing wonders there are privately-owned. It is only when security improves, and the power situation and the pay packet are reasonably enhanced that Nigerian doctors in Diaspora will return home to invest and practise. The President should start patronising Nigerian hospitals so that other Nigerians will also be encouraged to do so. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com