Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Police Command, on Sunday, said it had arrested a man identified as Sunday Ayetare for claiming to be an officer of the command, who is also a prophet, Inspector Samuel Afolabi, also known as Olopa to di Woli. The police said the suspect was arrested in Igbokoda, the headquarters of the Ilaje Local Government Area of the state last month. According to the police, the suspect, who claimed to be a pastor, had allegedly been staging fake miracles to deceive unsuspecting members of the public, using the name of Inspector Afolabi. The suspect was also alleged to have been involved in sexual harassment. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Femi Joseph, explained that the suspect confessed to the crime during interrogation. Joseph said, “One Sunday Ayetare, 35, a native of Itepe Okitipupa, was arrested on a crusade ground of a white garment church in Igbokoda for offences of attempted rape and sexual harassment. “On interrogation, the suspect also confessed to be a fake prophet, who had been deceiving people by staging fake miracles. He stated further that he deceived his latest victim, who was looking unto God for a child, by telling her that he could make her pregnant. READ ALSO: Police nab two suspected kidnappers in Niger “He added that in the process, he sexually harassed the woman and attempted to rape her. He stated that he decided to adopt the same alias (Olopa to di Woli) as Inspector Samuel Afolabi in order to hoodwink people so as to get enough followers. “It was, however, established that the suspect was never a policeman, but an impostor and a serial fraudster.” Joseph added that the command would not relent in its efforts to flush out criminals from the state Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com