Samuel Awoyinfa The Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha, has said the state can generate N3bn monthly from tourism and hospitality sector if well harnessed. He said this when he inaugurated the Imo State Tourism Board at the Sam Mbakwe Expanded Executive Council Chambers, Government House, Owerri, on Wednesday. This was contained in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Chibuike Onyeukwu, a copy of which was made available to our correspondent. The governor said that tourism remained a driving force that could boost the economic development of the state. He said, “Imo State has the capacity to take the lead in the tourism sector in the country. We can make a fortune from this sector and rake in N3bn monthly to our Internal Generated Revenue. “Our vision is to boost tourism in the state, develop an entertainment city and turn Imo State into a tourist destination. We have the potential; therefore, we can achieve it.” He called on members of the board to explore the sector and give considerable attention to the abundant human resources and tourism potential in the state. Ihedioha noted that his administration was committed to supporting willing investors, particularly those intending to invest in the tourism sector, by providing land and the enabling environment. “We are ready to work and support those who have ideas to develop our state. We will continue to utilise our potential to ensure we make appreciable impact in developing our dear state in the next two years,” he said. While expressing optimism in the ability of the members of the board to live up to expectation, the governor urged them to strive to make the state a number one tourist destination in the country. The Chairman of the board, Charles Anudo, expressed confidence that tourism would become a major revenue earner for the state. “It is our hope that we shall impact the sector by attracting new investments with a view to creating jobs and actualising the governor’s mandate for the sector.” Members of the board were listed in the statement as Mrs Ngozi Ngoka, DG/Secretary; Prof. ABC Duruaku; Chief CMC Onuoha; Paul Onwuanibe and Chidi Okoro. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 