Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Government has said it will assist the victims of the Ile-Epo pipeline explosion. It also urged relevant stakeholders to help end the incessant vandalism of petroleum product pipelines in the state. The Deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, stated this on Tuesday during a visit to the scene of the explosion. PUNCH Metro had reported that the pipeline belonging to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation was on Sunday ruptured by vandals, which led to an explosion. The explosion, which occurred around 8.30pm, left five persons dead, while 11 buildings, 17 shops and 36 vehicles, including 33 trucks, were consumed by the accompanying inferno. In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media, Office of the Deputy Governor, Tunde Alao, on Tuesday, Hamzat was quoted as stating that the collaboration of various stakeholders had become imperative due to the loss of lives and property. He stressed the need for the state government, the NNPC and relevant security agencies to put in place measures that would deter vandals, adding that the state government was determined to fish out the perpetrators and punish them accordingly. The deputy governor stated, “This fire incident is a very unfortunate development and we commiserate with those affected. The state government will meet with the families affected by the inferno and see what can be done to ameliorate their losses; the government will support the community in whatever is being done to ensure the safety of their lives and property. “Please, endeavour to call security people on any of the toll free emergency numbers for appropriate response to forestall any form of vandalism of our infrastructure. We need the help of the community to provide information; the people doing these evil acts are not ghosts, they are human beings and they can be caught. “We must apprehend them. We will work with security operatives to catch them and make examples out of them.” The Chairman, Agbado-Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area, Dr Augustine Arogundade, while briefing the deputy governor, urged the NNPC to set up a task force to monitor the pipeline against vandalism. The Director of Operations, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Olatunde Akinsanya, who noted that the agency had commenced an enumeration to ascertain the number of people and families displaced as well as properties lost, said LASEMA had commenced preparations to receive the displaced persons at relief camps in Igando and Agbowa. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com