Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt A former governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Dakuku Peterside, has expressed dissatisfaction over the manner the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, addressed traditional rulers in the state during their quarterly meeting. Peterside, who is the Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, said in a statement on Tuesday that the governor’s recent actions against the monarchs in the state were “demeaning and unbecoming” of someone who occupied such a dignified office.” A statement by his media team said Wike was seen lambasting the traditional rulers, threatening to depose them and calling one of the monarchs a troublemaker. “Wike’s penchant for embarrassing traditional rulers is becoming irresponsible and shameful. Never in our history have we had such a disrespectful governor. “Since 2015, Wike has sacked, deposed and withdrawn recognition from several royal fathers without any recourse to history, tradition and culture. “Not too long ago, Wike threatened to depose the Amanyanabo of Kalabari, King Theophilus Princewill, just as he has on several occasions lambasted traditional rulers as if they were his servants. “Wike must be cautioned. Well-meaning Rivers people must caution him. He is turning himself into a feudal lord and an emperor at the same time,” the statement read. Reacting, the state Commissioner for Information and Communication, Paulinus Nsirim, said Peterside’s interpretation of the frank discussion between the governor and traditional rulers was an indication that the NIMASA boss was seeking political relevance. He said, “Governor Wike was responding frankly to the address of the chairman of the Rivers State Council of the Rulers wherein the chairman requested that non-recognised traditional rulers should be checked by the governor.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com