Ebenezer Bajela The Nigeria Football Federation’s technical director, Bitrus Bewarang, has assured that the uncertainty surrounding the future of the Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, will be resolved soon to enable the national team concentrate on the World Cup qualifier slated for March. Bewerang hinted that plans were already on the way to resolving the German’s contract issues before March. In December, 2019, the NFF president, Amaju Pinnick, at a media parley in Lagos revealed plans to renew the  contract of Eagles Head Coach for another term but with some certain conditions. Pinnick said that Rohr’s contract would be renewed but with stringent conditions that would include that he should stay in Nigeria. “We are going to renew Rohr’s contract with Nigeria before it expires. Unlike the previous contract, we are going to insist now that he stays in Nigeria with accommodation for him in whichever city he prefers between Abuja and Lagos.” This particular condition is believed to be the stumbling block, which had stalled talks of a new deal, thus leading to uncertainties about the 66-year-old’s future. However, in an exclusive telephone chat with Sunday PUNCH, the NFF technical director has sought to calm down fears, assuring that the coach’s contract is being looked into by the federation’s executive team, adding that his future will be resolved by March. “The issue of Rohr hasn’t got to my department yet. It is a contract issue that should be dealt with by the executive team before you will get the final decision. “Rohr is a good friend of Nigerians and the Nigeria Football Federation as well, and I believe he will not take the decision of abandoning the country. “There are some decisions on the table and he is weighing his options, but we want Nigerians to give us a bit of time. With the qualifiers brought back to March, definitely we will not lose out because everything would have been resolved before then. “I believe you and other Nigerians will hear the outcome very soon.” Rohr who was appointed on a three-year contract in August 2016 has managed 39 games in charge of the Super Eagles with 22 wins, seven draws and 10 losses. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 