Nike Popoola The acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, has said that the National Insurance Commission will soon commence the enforcement of the compulsory insurance policies under the second phase of the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative. He said, “The second phase of the MDRI will soon be unveiled and it will mark out clear targets and tasks for all stakeholders in the industry. “Going forward, we shall vigorously pursue the continued implementation of compulsory insurance in every nook and cranny of the country.” He said the commission was not unaware of the challenges inhibiting the successful implementation of these classes of insurance, but it had resolved to work with relevant stakeholders to ensure a seamless drive. Thomas said, “Indeed, the successful implementation of compulsory classes of insurance across the nation will ensure adequate protection of our strategic national assets. “We will be working with the relevant security agencies to guarantee effective and efficient monitoring of compliance.” He also said the financial inclusion strategy had been central to the Federal Government’s developmental plan and the commission had over the years invested hugely in the development of its mechanism. Thomas mentioned that some of the strategies were the introduction of micro-insurance and Takaful insurance products. He said the introduction of these lines of insurance was intended to deepen the penetration of insurance in the country and bring into the fold majority of the populace currently excluded. So far, he added, some milestones had been recorded in this regard with three standalone micro insurance and four Takaful insurance companies already granted approvals. “The commission shall continue to deploy more energy and resources in building public trust and confidence in insurance despite years of poor perception,” he said. Thomas also said that the commission had ensured the right pricing of insurance products and effective deployment of technology for ease of transaction. He said that digitalisation of insurance business was no longer an option but mandatory and that the industry must work towards its actualisation. “As we may all be aware, the industry is currently lagging behind other financial services sectors in this area,” he said. The acting commissioner said that NAICOM was working vigorously to see that all its operations were digitalised. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com