*Demands adherence to rule of law in 2020 Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Nigerian Bar Association said on Wednesday that the rule of law was often assaulted and lay prostrate by the Federal Government through its misbehaviours and highhandedness in 2019. In its New Year message made on its behalf by its President, Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN), the NBA demanded strict adherence to rule of law in the country in 2020. Usoro said, “In 2020, the Nigerian Bar Association will continue to speak for Nigerians. “We will persist in holding governments to account, particularly as it relates to the promotion and protection of the rule of law and the delivery of democracy dividends to our people.” He said paying lip service to rule of law would not bring about peace and justice in the country. By extension, he condemned the new trend of getting public officers suspended from via an ex parte order by the Code of Conduct Tribunal. An ex parte order is made by a court following an application b by a party before a court in the absence of the adverse party. Usoro recalled that it was first used against the immediate-past Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, in January 2019, and was again used in December of the same year against the acting Acting Registrar-General of the Corporate Affairs Commission, Azuka Azinge. He described such order as reprehensible and an assault on collective sensibilities. The statement stated, “As the NBA consistently points out, we cannot have a country where peace and justice reigns if we keep paying lip service to the rule of law. “In 2019, rule of law in Nigeria was persistently assaulted and lay prostrate, thanks mostly to executive misbehaviours and high-handedness. “2019 marked the year that removal of public officers through nebulous and reprehensible ex-parte orders of the Code of Conduct Tribunal gradually became the norm in our national life. “It started with the removal of erstwhile Chief Justice of Nigeria, Honorable Mr. Justice Walter Onnoghen, GCON through a purported CCT ex-parte order in the first quarter of 2019 and, towards the end of the year, this abnormality was repeated with the removal from office of the Acting Registrar-General of the Corporate Affairs Commission, Lady Azuka Azinge through a questionable ex-parte order. “This is one ‘innovation’ in our national life that does not bode well for the security of tenure of our public officers. “Economic growth can only be attained in an atmosphere of predictability and certainty. This new practice of tripping and removing our public officers through contrived CCT ex-parte orders corrodes confidence in the system. It not only assaults our collective sensibilities when CCT ex-parte orders are used to ease out public officers but erodes due process, a fundamental plank of the rule of law.”