Samson Folarin The Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission has reopened investigation into the controversial doctorate of the acting Director General of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi, Dr Chima Igwe. The ICPC spokesperson, Rasheedat Okoduwa, said in a statement on Tuesday that Igwe was cleared based on the information received from “sister agencies.” She insisted that the commission would not cover up any wrongdoing, adding that investigation had been reopened into the case. Okoduwa’s statement was in reaction to a report by The PUNCH on Monday that the anti-graft agency confirmed a non-existing PhD certificate and cleared the 57-year-old Igwe of any wrongdoing. The PUNCH had first reported in September 2019 that Igwe, more than 17 years after claiming to have bagged a doctorate at the Universite d’Abomey-Calavi, Benin Republic, could not produce a certificate to back his claim. He was said to have been promoted several times based on a letter of attestation that he attended the school. The issue had become contentious when the tenure of the immediate past DG, Prof. Gloria Elemo, elapsed and there was the need for a new head to be appointed for the institute. The governing board shortlisted Igwe for the position because he was the most senior officer in line with civil service rules, until it was discovered that there was no PhD certificate in his file. Several ultimatums given to him to go to the school and get the certificate ended without a result, as the board also discovered that the issue had become a subject of investigation by the ICPC. The Chairman of the FIIRO Governing Board, Alhaji Ibrahim Gwarzo, had written the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, stating the failure of Igwe to produce his PhD certificate. He sought approval for the next most senior official to head the agency in an acting capacity pending the appointment of a substantive DG. Onu, however, declined the request and insisted that Igwe be appointed the acting DG. After weeks of waiting without any response from the ICPC on the outcome of its investigation, The PUNCH correspondent visited the Universite d’Abomey-Calavi in August to find out the truth. The Deputy Director of the Doctoral School of Pure and Applied Sciences of the institution, Prof. Valentine Wotto, who issued the attestation letter, which Igwe had been parading as proof of his doctorate, said the acting DG did not complete his studies. Wotto, however, said Igwe had contacted the school to continue his studies. The ICPC, while refusing to comment at the time, promised to make its findings public, as our correspondent published his findings from Benin Republic. A few weeks later, the ICPC cleared Igwe, saying he had a PhD certificate. Our correspondent contacted the school a second time, as the Director of the School of Postgraduate Studies, Prof. Joel Tossa, insisted that Igwe had not graduated. He said the institution never told the ICPC that the FIIRO official graduated, adding that he still needed to be present and defend his thesis. Okoduwa, in her statement on Tuesday, said the ICPC was only following global practices. She said, “The attention of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has been drawn to a publication in The PUNCH of December 30, 2019, titled: ‘Against varsity’s pronouncement, ICPC clears embattled FIIRO DG’s PhD.’ “The publication quoted excerpts of a letter from the ICPC to the Minister of Science and Technology that the commission, in its findings, discovered that ‘Dr Chima Igwe attended and obtained a PhD certificate from the University D’Abomey Calavi, Republic of Benin’. “The commission wishes to place on record that it relied on communications from sister agencies in response to its enquiries on the status of Chima Igwe’s PhD certification in arriving at the position communicated to the minister. “The ICPC did no wrong in relying upon information obtained from other government agencies with the functional domain of the subject of enquiry. Such inter-agency confidence is a global practice. “However, in the light of further complaints received on the matter, the commission has, since December 3, 2019, re-opened investigation into the status of Chima Igwe’s PhD certification. “The ICPC remains committed to a professional discharge of its mandate and will not be part of any scheme to cover up wrongdoing.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 