Nike Popoola Stanbic IBTC Bank says it has introduced a product called BluEdge savings account to boosting savings culture. A statement from the bank said the BluEdge savings account is a product that allowed an individual to open an account with zero balance, as he did not need any money to open the account. “You can always fund the account at any time to grow your savings. With the BluEdge account, the minimum account balance is also zero naira, this means that you will not be charged for having zero balance on the account,” it stated. The bank added that the BluEdge savings account gave students and young Nigerians currently enrolled in the National Youth Service Corps the edge that they needed to experience financial confidence and freedom. It added that it took away the pressure of starting an account with huge funds as it enabled them to start with zero naira while earning an interest on the savings every month. The BluEdge savings account, it stated, could be operated with ease and accessed with a Verve card on Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, ATM, and via USSD. Account owners could also withdraw cash from the nearest Stanbic IBTC Bank branch. The requirements for opening a BluEdge savings account are a BluEdge savings account form, passport photograph, BVN and student ID card, the bank stated. The Deputy Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, Wole Adeniyi, stated, “The BluEdge savings account is a great opportunity for young people to maintain a savings account conveniently. “It proffers solutions to the hassle of savings among youths, and the various benefits are deliberately aimed at encouraging and promoting a savings culture. It can also serve as an avenue for them to pursue their dreams.” CopyrightPUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  