Gibson Achonu, Owerri Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, has reiterated his resolve to reposition the civil service for optimal productivity. Addressing civil servants after inspecting facilities at the state secretariat, Owerri, on Thursday, the governor restated the need to return joy and confidence to the civil service. He said, “Civil service is like the engine of government and for a long time, government was removed from the service. I have come to return government to you. “If we don’t get the civil service right, get the required motivation, provide job, security and satisfaction, it means that the engine of government is broken down. “I have come to give you hope. Just know that the old order is gone and I have come with a new order.” Expressing dissatisfaction with the deplorable state of some of the facilities at the secretariat, Uzodinma promised that water would be restored within the next few weeks. He also promised to ensure that electricity was reconnected to  the disconnected areas next month, adding that engineers would be sent to assess the buildings for immediate rehabilitation. The governor also assured the civil servants that he would make payment of salaries a priority. “I have arranged with the banks, whether FAAC comes or not, on or before 25th of every month, your salaries will be paid in full. Under no condition should you be paid anything less than your 100% salaries,” he added. He also promised that payment of the new minimum wage would soon commence, just as he directed members of the Joint Committee on Minimum Wage to submit their report for implementation. Uzodimma, at another event, said the state was committed to creating an enabling environment for business to thrive in the state. The governor spoke on Thursday when he received the Imo State chapter of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria at the Government House in Owerri. He challenged them to attract investors to Imo State. He said, “I am not unaware of your challenges. We are committed to ensuring that our state is industrialised and employment created for our youths.” The President of the MAN, Chuma Eluma, said the high cost of production in the state was associated with the deplorable state of roads at the industrial layout, inadequate power supply and constant extortion by security personnel. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com