Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said interlocking blocks will be used in some road projects across the state. Obaseki told members of the Interlocking Engineers Association that the technology would be deployed in road projects undertaken by the Edo State Employment and Expenditure for Results programme. A statement by the state government quoted the governor as saying artisans would be engaged in some road projects undertaken by the Edo SEEFOR programme. Obaseki made these known during a courtesy visit by members of the association led by the Chairman, Ernest Omozee, to the Government House in Benin City. He said his administration would continue to provide the needed support for entrepreneurs in the state to succeed. The governor asked the commissioner and the permanent secretary in the Ministry of Infrastructure to come up with modalities for engaging the services of the Interlocking Engineers Association. “It is possible to put interlocking blocks and stones on the edges of most of our roads to serve as walkway. It is possible for us to help you with some inputs such as cement so you can get them at regulated prices from the manufacturers,” he said. He added that the association would be linked to major road contractors in the state to improve the quality of their products. The Public Relations Officer of the association, Jackson Ebhote, commended the governor for his administration’s entrepreneurial programmes for youths in the state through EdoJobs initiative, Edo Production Centre and the revamping of the Government Science and Technical College. Ebhote said members of the association had decided to make the governor the grand patron going by his leadership style and for prioritising the welfare of Edo people. He noted that the association was fully in support of the Governor Obaseki-led administration, and urged him not to be distracted by a few individuals opposed to reforms. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  