Deji Lambo There was panic at the Kara Market on Tuesday as fire gutted a section of the market located off the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway in Ogun State. It was gathered that some traders ran helter-skelter, while others resorted to packing their goods to prevent them from being consumed by the raging fire, which started around 10am. It was learnt that about 40 shops, some storage facilities and rooms were consumed by the inferno. As of the time of filing this report, the value of the burnt properties and goods had yet to be determined. A lottery agent, Tunde Tiamiyu, said he was attending to customers when the fire started, adding that nobody could ascertain the cause. He stated, “Nobody can say what caused the fire; we just saw people rushing to carry their belongings. The fire started around 10am and customers were busy placing bets in my shop when it started and we couldn’t finish staking the bets as everybody rushed out for safety. “We were able to carry some of our terminals out, which are very important to my business.” A shop owner, Yahaya Usman, while lamenting the loss of his goods, said this was the third time the market would be burnt in 2019. Usman said, “The fire started from a woman’s shop and it spread everywhere and burnt our shops. I have lost a lot of my goods and cannot determine the value. “This is the third time that fire will burn this market. People don’t listen when those in charge of the market speak. Traders have been banned from cooking inside their shops but they don’t listen” Another trader, Abiola Ajayi, said the fire was caused by traders in the market, who were fond of positioning gas cylinders and generators close to each other. The Secretary of the market, Babalola Adewale, said, “We will not allow anybody to build anything there until the management visits the scene to determine what should be done. We tell the traders to use blocks to rebuild their structures instead of planks, but they don’t listen.” The Director, Ogun State Fire Service, Fatai Adefala, said, “There was no casualty because we were there to put the fire under control. We also called for assistance from the Lagos State Fire Service. The people at the Kara Market wanted to attack us, but the security men prevented them from doing so and we did our job perfectly. “The reason for the attempted attack was that when fire occurred, they expected the fire service to be on the ground immediately. Properties and a vehicle were destroyed.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 