Sylvester Ikhisemojie The term cancer is one that causes fear in many people. Once a person gets the diagnosis, they often become irrational and grasp at any and every bit of advice they are offered. Sometimes, people end up with the wrong advice from certain people who do not even know as much or better than the patients do and they end up with all the wrong choices in treatment that eventually bring about many complications. When such complications become the norm rather than the exception in the course of treatment, death is the result. For the people who belong to this category, such an outcome is painful. Often, they choose alternative therapies that emphasise the consumption of vegetables and other foods devoid of artificial preservatives and condiments. Very often, what the patients end up taking is a mixture of the items named here and soothsayers’ concoctions that make the whole experience such a deadly mixture. Others combine organic foods with faith and end up in the same way. For the cancer patients among us in our troubled country, this becomes the fate of many. People who have cancer can die because the growths either insinuate themselves into other organs or squeeze them up gradually but eventually in such a complete manner that their ability to function normally is compromised. Over time, the reduction in normal functioning becomes so severe that all ability to do anything for the body is lost and the organ dies. As other organs succumb to the ceaseless march of the cancer cells, they too die off one after another until one organ that is vital to life is lost and death results. Therefore, people who are in the earlier stages of any type of cancer may not have any symptoms and they may not even know that they have any problems. Others have subtle features of the disease and will manifest certain unusual signs that will make them complain in a hospital. Usually, with the passage of time and the progressive growth in the size of the tumour, cancer can also spread to other parts of the body causing widespread damage and destruction to those organs thereby making death more likely. This inexorable spread of cancer causes increased physical exhaustion and weakness such that even when one has a dedicated care-person, there may be an inability to even communicate one’s basic needs to such a person. There is also a decreased ability to think properly and concentrate on things around the immediate physical space thus increasing the likelihood of sustaining personal injuries and even worse. As time progresses, there is an increased level of anxiety suffered by the person and the heart rate begins to change. It becomes more faint and irregular and could eventually fail. As the heart rate begins to fall, so does the blood pressure. From this point onwards, the person experiences a loss of interest in food with associated anorexia because cancer itself produces and releases into the body a certain protein that both depresses the appetite and causes fever. The feeling generated by these events going on at the same time causes a profound lack of interest in the things going on around the person and of sickness to the extent that loneliness supervenes even when other people are present. As the final days approach, people could experience a slowed breathing rate and there may even be pauses between the breaths. Such pauses can be as short as 10 seconds or maybe as long as half of a minute. The eyelids then become difficult to close and there may be little or no response to calls or speech around them. The skin also then becomes dry and cool to the touch. The mouth becomes dry and the amount of urine produced gradually reduces. At the same time, there is the loss of control of the passage of urine and even stool such that in the course of home care, adult diapers are often the common resort to keep the patient as comfortable as possible, while in-hospital care, a urinary catheter may be inserted into the bladder to help keep the patient dry. Adult diapers will similarly be employed for the purpose of collecting the stool. The ability to help the patient keep that area of the body dry is vital for the control of infection which can hasten the patient’s death as there is a diminished ability to combat infections. There is then also a tendency to drift in and out of the state of consciousness. The ability to hear is steadily reduced over time so that routine questions asked about wellbeing and other types of inquiry usually go unanswered. The vision is steadily blurred as well and confusion sets in about the time and place as well as the identity of the people around them. Certain involuntary movements become repetitive and may also become restless. As the end nears, breathing often sounds wet and noisy with clear evidence of a struggle to breathe. Some people refer to that status as a death rattle and is often heard as the patient reaches a point of no return. Beyond this point, the bladder and the bowel are completely emptied usually in an uncontrollable manner. The breathing develops an abnormal pattern that is unpredictable before eventually stopping completely. The eyes will stop moving at this point and the pupils, the dark round windows in the middle of the eyes, become larger and remain so even when a beam of harsh light from a torch is focused on them. The blood pressure continues to fall and many attempts to raise it often do not succeed and after a while, there is no detectable blood pressure. The heart rate at this point cannot be detected and the pulse cannot be felt as well. Cancer kills people by growing into key organs, spreading through the blood and lymphatic vessels, and invading the nerves so that their normal range of functionality is interfered with to the degree that death ensues. Cancer disrupts the normal way in which the cells and organs function. This means that when new cells form, they do so abnormally while the old cells which the body should normally kill off continue to live and acquire abnormal patterns of behaviour. It is the loss of this ability to regulate normal cell growth and development that causes cancer to develop. And that development can take place in any type of cell in the body ranging from the skin and blood vessels to the bone. Dear doctor, thank you very much for the help I got from you the last time. I went to do the abdominopelvic scan. I also found out that when I lie down on that left side of the abdomen I complained about, I will start to cough. I don’t know why that happens but the result of the scan showed that I have a hernia at that portion of the abdomen and my doctor has advised me to have an operation to correct it. Is that the solution sir?  He called it an incisional hernia. What is that? 0802xxxxxxx That’s an interesting development but it is entirely possible that an incisional hernia can give you the kind of discomfort you complained about usually following a previous operation. If you have previously had an operation before in that part of the abdomen, then an incisional hernia can result. It is a complication of an abdominal surgery but usually has to be repaired through another operation. Your doctor is very correct and you should see him or her for further advice. Dear doctor, I am a girl of 16 years. Two days after my menstrual flow, I experienced a thick black, discharge. I just want to know if it is normal because the discharge started early this year. Thanks.  0803xxxxxxx No, the discharge is not normal. It may be due to infection especially if there is an odour and that should be properly investigated so that you can get the proper treatment you need. Dear doctor, kindly help me out. What can cause irritability? I feel irritated any time I perceive perfumes and it is so bad that even when I am eating I feel like throwing up. I know I am not pregnant and I have used a worm expeller but the feeling has not gone. What can be wrong with me? 081xxxxxxx You must be informed that when there is a dilemma like yours with no other associated features, it is often better to conduct tests. Because you mentioned the possibility of pregnancy, it is my conclusion that you are a young woman. Therefore, you ought to see a doctor at least and complain about your feelings so that the required tests can be done. A pregnancy test should be done as well as a blood count. Then a film for malaria parasites should be taken because malaria can cause problems like this one. Then a film for malaria parasites should be taken because malaria can cause problems like this too. You can also still have worms even though you have used one and a stool sample should be taken as well. Based on the results obtained, you can then get the appropriate treatment that should solve your problem. Dear doctor, I am the younger sister of a woman you once operated on and she said you solved her abdominal problem but that she has lost your contact so I decided to get across to you via this platform. I have done about four operations in my abdomen and I have been married now for over 18 years. The last time I was operated on, they told me that I have a frozen pelvis. I just want to know how to see you sir and what tests I can do before seeing you because I want to do IVF (in-vitro fertilisation) but I am over 45 years of age. I am aware that the problems are many with me right now and just want your advice. Thank you. 0803xxxxxxx That’s interesting madam. The problem your sister had may have been different from what you are experiencing now. And because I am unable to recall this particular case, it must have been done many years ago. At any rate, it is important that you are properly guided with regards to what tests you should do. My suggestion would be that you see a gynaecologist so that you can get a thorough examination following which a proper assessment of your reproductive organs will be the guide about what chances your prospective IVF effort will offer you. For the purposes of clarity, the IVF technique is much ideal for people who have your kind of story. I should say you ought to go for it with my very best wishes. Dear doctor, I have been experiencing a lump inside my throat since the dry season started. I always feel it there like a lump, like mucus as soon as I wake up in the morning. But I then feel it at different times during the day. It is sometimes itchy and feels almost like I want to cough. Could it be a cough? 0803xxxxxxx That is an interesting question and may be due to a number of factors. First, this is the dry season like you noted and there is an increase in dust and other particles in the atmosphere that can very well irritate your throat. Sometimes, you might go on and develop a cough and at other times, the throat is itchy and needs to be cleared up frequently. So it is not a cough; it could develop into a cough. It should be treated with lozenges, vitamin C, and warm or hot beverages. Dear doctor, please what should a young woman do who has painful menstrual cramps that do not seem to get better even as one grows older and for which no drugs for pain seem to be effective? Is it also true that the pain will only stop when I start having children? I am 26 years now. Thank you very much. 0813xxxxxxx This is a frequently asked question on this page and elsewhere. There is no truth in the assertion that the pain associated with menstruation known as dysmenorrhoea or menstrual cramps only stops when childbearing begins. The most effective medications usually deployed for this common problem are the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, NSAIDs, of which Ibuprofen is a prominent member when taken with meals or soon after eating. In some people, this is not enough and may then have to be combined with paracetamol or buscopan. Most of the time, any combination of these medications will be helpful. However, in some really severe cases, there may be associated with vomiting and pain radiating down the lower limbs such that injectable pain relievers would have to be deployed. For some other women, regular exercise is known to help reduce the intensity of pain as does massage of the lower part of the tummy and the low back region often with a hot-water bottle or an infrared lamp. Besides, reducing your intake of caffeinated drinks, tobacco smoking, and alcohol also helps in the long run to ameliorate pain. Dear doctor, thank you for the good work you are doing. I am a retired chief matron who now experiences something painful at night in different parts of my body. Sometimes, it is my calf and sometimes it is my thigh. It is always painful and it does not stay in one place because I also feel it sometimes in my rib cage. I usually have to wake up my husband or my son if my husband is not at home to help me massage it. Still, it takes the pain a long time to go and it disrupts my sleep so much. I am now 64 years old. What is the possible cause and what do I do to solve it? Is it true that when you have low calcium, as you can find in a post-menopausal woman, you are prone to suffering from it? Please help with suitable answers. This is so upsetting now. Thank you. 0805xxxxxxx Well, these kinds of muscle cramps may be due to overuse ranging from too much standing to too much walking. Dehydration occurring as part of an illness or resulting from inadequate intake of water can also cause a problem like this one especially when it seems to affect several muscle groups at the same time. Very often, however, the cause is not even known and attention should therefore be paid to adequate fluid intake and a reasonable degree of physical movement to reduce the incidence. Even the habit of staying in a certain position for a long period of time can be a precipitating factor. Finally, it is not true that when you have low calcium levels, you experience issues like these. Low calcium levels can cause muscle cramps of a different nature called hypocalcaemic tetany. That cannot be relieved by massaging and it can even cause death. They are not the same thing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 