Nike Popoola Fidelity Bank Plc says it has made new board appointments to replace some of its outgoing directors, who recently successfully completed their tenures on the board in accordance with the bank’s internal governance policies. It said this in a statement on Monday titled ‘Fidelity Bank announces board retirements and new appointments’. The Executive Director, South Directorate, Mrs Aku Odinkemelu, who was appointed to the board on August 4, 2014, will be retiring by December 31. As executive director, Aku played a defining role as a member of the transformation team in Fidelity Bank over the last six years, according to the statement. A non-executive director, Chief Charles Umolu, completed his tenure and retired from the board on December 16. He served on the Board Risk, Credit, Finance and General Purpose, Audit and Corporate Governance Committees and chaired the Board Credit Committee until he retired. A non-executive director, Mr Michael Okeke, also successfully completed his tenure and retired on December 18. He was a member of various board committees including the Board Corporate Governance Committee, which he chaired from October 2018 to December 2019. Another non-executive director, Mr Alex Ojukwu, will complete his tenure and retire by December 31. He currently serves on the Board Credit, Risk, Audit and Corporate Governance Committees and chairs the Board Risk Committee. In place of the retired and outgoing non-executive directors, the board announced the appointment of Mrs Amaka Onwughalu, Mr Nelson Nweke and Mr Chinedu Okeke as non-executive directors. The bank stated that the appointments of Onwughalu and Nweke had been approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria, while Okeke was awaiting CBN approval. The board expressed its appreciation to the outgoing executive and non-executive directors for their impressive contributions to the growth and development of the bank. The Chairman, Fidelity Bank Plc, said Mr Mustafa Chike-Obi, said, “Fidelity Bank is privileged to have benefited from the combined experience and expertise of these very accomplished lady and gentlemen. “We thank them for their service to the bank and wish them the very best in their future endeavors.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  