Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt Over 24-hours after an explosive device was detonated at the Christian Universal Church Incorporated located on No. 25 Azikiwe Road, Mile 3, Diobu in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Governor Nyesom Wike, has yet to make any statement on the incident. The church, also known as God’s Power House, is believed to be owned by the governor’s father, even as the police fingered members of the Indigenous People of Biafra for the attack. As of the time of filing this report on Monday, neither Wike, nor any government official had reacted to the attack on the church. Residents of Azikiwe and adjoining streets expressed fears that the state government might impose a curfew on the area as a result of the attack. Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Diobu Vigilante, Prince Amatari, has alleged that Saturday’s attack on the church was targeted at Wike. Amatari, who spoke on a live radio programme on Classic FM, 91.9 in Port Harcourt on Monday and monitored by our correspondent, corroborated the position of the spokesman for the state police command, Nnamdi Omoni, that IPOB members might have masterminded the attack. He stated, “There was a burial in Diobu that same Saturday and the attention of the Diobu Vigilante was drawn to ensure that visitors, who came for the burial, go home safe and secure, which we did. “This (explosion) funny incident played out after the burial. So, the rumour that it was IPOB that carried out the attack could be true because, the governor has been under attack from IPOB members. “I remember vividly during the #EndSARS protests that the IPOB boss (Nnamdi Kanu) made offers to anyone, who could bring the governor’s head. They even went after the vigilantes and gave specific instructions that the vigilantes, who saved police stations, should also be killed. “But my greatest joy is that God is bigger than them. So, what played out is a target on the governor and it is related to the IPOB. Since then, threats are still coming to Diobu on how they will still burn down police stations.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 