Ondo State, a major gateway to the northern part of the country especially for travellers from the South-West region, has been under the siege of insecurity for a long time now. Kidnappings, armed robberies and killings have become the order of the day in the SunShine State particularly on its highways in recent times. About 18 months after Mrs Funke Olakunri, the daughter of the national leader of the pan Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, was killed by gunmen in Ondo, insecurity has continued to fester in the state corridor of the federal highways linking the South-West to the North, South-East and South-South. Mrs Olakunri was killed while she was travelling along the Benin-Ore Expressway at about 2:00 pm on July 13, 2019. The police later said that seven other commuters who were abducted along the highway were rescued by its personnel same day. Unresolved security challenges on the highways traversing Ondo North and the Benin-Owo-Akure Expressway have made travelling along these routes a dangerous adventure. Since the beginning of this year alone, there have been several reported cases of kidnapping on the notorious Akure-Owo-Benin Expressway. Specifically, at least 40 persons were believed to have been kidnapped and released on ransom along these notorious routes in the past few months. Sadly, the majority of the kidnapped persons were low-profile individuals whose cases were not brought to the media space. Interestingly, the state Police Command claimed to have rescued some victims. Owing to the fear of possibly losing their loved ones, families of victims would secretly negotiate ransom payment with the abductors without the knowledge of security agencies. Notably, when the victims would be released, they were often set free along the same notorious Benin-Owo-Akure Expressway. There are, however, reports of several unlucky victims, who have been raped, maimed, dehumanised and killed in the dens of bandits in Ondo forests. One out of the many sad tales of the activities of bandits in the state was the pathetic case of a former captain of the Nigerian national scrabble team, Late Paul Sodje. The versatile scrabble player was killed in cold blood by certain abductors, who had earlier kidnapped his brother, Chris Sodje. Paul was shot dead by the hoodlums when he took ransom to the kidnappers. The bandits reportedly collected the ransom and killed the bearer, refusing to release the victim for an unknown reason. Again, the Sunshine State came under the global spotlight for the wrong reason on November 26 when one of its foremost and revered traditional rulers was killed by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers at Elegbeka community, a few kilometres to his hometown, Ifon, the headquarters of the Ose Local Government area of the state. Oba Israel Adeusi was said to be returning from Akure, the state capital, when his vehicle ran into the highway bandits who shot at his vehicle and consequently killed the first-class monarch. Interestingly on the same day, a wife of the Chief of Staff to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, Chief Olugbenga Ale, and one other person were abducted at Owena, along the Akure- Ondo Expressway. Owena is the headquarters of the Idanre Local Government Area of Ondo State. The lucky victims were, however, rescued by security operatives after spending 24 hours in the bush with the abductors. Meanwhile, the worsening insecurity is believed to have forced several residents and indigenes of the South-West region especially Ondo to shelve scheduled Christmas and New Year holiday trips to their towns and villages. The raging insecurity has also made some stakeholders to query the capability of the South-West governors-led Amotekun Corps to tackle insecurity in the region. Amotekun has been touted as the formidable force that would put an end or mitigate the evil activities of bandits and other criminal elements in the region especially at the grass roots level. The outfit was launched in all the six states of the South-West with assurances by the governors that it would complement conventional security agencies to nip raging insecurity in the region in the bud. The South-West security outfit was, among other things, meant to flush out bandits and other criminal elements from Yorubaland forests. Several months after its inauguration, its impact has yet to be significantly felt in the region. The Ondo State Governor and Chairman of the South-West Governors’ Forum, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, had during the inauguration of the security agency in August, expressed the optimism that the agency would stop the deadly operations of bandits in the region. Akeredolu said the fight against bandits would be a matter of ‘No retreat, No surrender’ with the creation of the security outfit. He said, “It was so horrible that marauders laid siege to the highways as well as in the farmlands waiting to kidnap or devour anyone insight.  With the launch of the Amotekun, we resolved that it shall be no retreat, no surrender.  We are not going to be intimidated or blackmailed. It is incontrovertible that the existing security framework is being overstretched and we had to devise a means of confronting the challenge of insecurity head-on.  That was when the concept of Amotekun came up.  As Yoruba, we are not known to surrender to our adversaries and if our forebears did not, we should not.” But recent security problems in the South-West, especially in Ondo State, have changed the perception of most residents and observers about the capability of the Amotekun outfit. Observers are of the opinion that Operation Amotekun has yet to make any significant progress in the tackling of insecurity in the region and the state. Apart from their efforts in rescuing the wife of Akeredolu’s Chief of Staff recently, Amotekun Corps has been viewed by critics as a toothless security organisation. But a member of the security agency, who spoke on condition of anonymity, linked the agency’s problem to lack of adequate funding. Specifically, he disclosed that it would be difficult for the security outfit to perform better than it was currently doing due to funding constraints. He said funding for the agency was insufficient to carry out its operations across the state as expected. The security official said, “If Amotekun is adequately funded, only a very few cases of banditry will be recorded in Ondo State. But with what we have now in terms of funding, the agency may not be able to do much.” #The Ondo Commander of Amotekun Corps, Chief Adetunji Adeleye, who confirmed that funding was a challenge for the organisation, however, said the agency was still doing its best in the provision of security. #He said the agency had established an alliance with local hunters, vigilante groups and other bodies in the state to enhance its fight against banditry and other security challenges. #Adeleye pointed out that the collaboration had yielded positive results, citing the prompt manner the wife of the governor’s Chief of Staff was rescued as a typical example. #He said, “We have met with local hunters and vigilante groups in the state, and this collaboration is yielding results. I want to assure you that kidnapping will soon become a thing of the past in the state. Although we cannot make our tactics known to the public, I can assure members of the public that these hoodlums will be chased out of this state. #“Our men have been going round to secure the release of some people who have been kidnapped. Recently, we entered into the bush and rescued the wife of the governor’s Chief of Staff and another victim. While we were searching for the killers of the Olufon in the forest, we rescued about three persons who had earlier been kidnapped by the bandits. #“I also want to assure you that we are still on the trail of the bandits. We have begun 24-hour surveillance patrol along the highways in the state; so we are not resting on our oars to flush out criminals out of this state.” Apart from the challenge of funding, the Amotekun boss identified the inability of members of the corps to carry firearms as a downside in the operation of the organisation. As a result, he advised the authorities to review the Amotekun law to enable the operatives of the security outfits to be licensed to carry arms. “We need to carry firearms in order to be able to face the bandits who are carrying big arms. So there is a need for the Amotekun law to be reviewed, to enable us to have a licence to carry firearms, “ Adeleye submitted. According to close observers, funding has also become an issue in some other states in the region. Meanwhile, a security expert and private security operator, Sunday Odey, said there was a need for people living in local communities to cooperate with the government and security agencies by giving them useful information that could assist in the tackling of criminal activities. He said, “The issue of security has gone beyond running after criminals only, it is about intelligence-gathering. That is why people living in rural areas are needed to assist the operatives of Amotekun Corps, police and other agencies in pounding the bandits and criminals. It should not be a difficult thing for residents of the area, particularly the local hunters, to locate the camps of the bandits in their areas and facilitate their arrest. So, I will advise the government to incorporate local hunters into Amotekun Corps. This will enhance the security agency to subdue the activities of the bandits.” In its comment,  Afenifere said there was a need for state of emergency to be  declared in the security sector, saying the situation was getting out of hand. The Publicity Secretary of the group,  Mr Yinka Odumakin, said since the Federal Government’s police had failed to perform up to expectation,  the South-West governors should empower the Amotekun more, to enable them to perform effectively in securing the local communities, and to flush out bandits who have hideouts in the communities. He said, “The situation is getting out of hand, the Federal Government should understand that the situation should not continue like this. Amotekun should be more empowered; we need local policing. The government must declare a state of emergency on security. The Federal Government has lost control of the situation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 