Sunday Aborisade and Raphael Ede The Chief Whip of the Senate and former governor of Abia State, Orji Kalu, has endorsed a former Nigerian Ambassador to the United States, Prof George Obiozor, as the next Ohanaeze Ndigbo President General. The Abia North Senator, in a statement by one of aides, Emeka Nwala, in Abuja on Sunday, also called on Ime Obi Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the organisation’s highest organ, to adopt Obiozor as its consensus candidate. Kalu said he had made wide consultations with the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige; and the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu. He also said he had consulted the governors of Enugu, Ebonyi, Anambra and Imo states. The Chief Whip added that he had also spoken with a former Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu; a former Secretary to Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim; the Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Nkeiru Onyejeocha; Senator Ben Obi; and other Igbo leaders in National Assembly, who he said, he pleaded with to support Obiozor The statement read in part, “Ohanaeze is the authentic voice of the Igbo, which exists for the sole purpose of speaking for and representing the interest of Ndigbo since its inception in 1976. “It is expected to be non-partisan. We need a leadership that can rightly define and defend the interests of the Ndigbo.  I have known Prof. George Obiozor for a long time and I am confident he will competently lead an active, mature, hardworking and viable Ohanaeze Ndigbo organisation.” Meanwhile, The highest decision making organ in the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Ime-Obi Ohanaeze Ndigbo, on Sunday urged the 40-member national election committee to conduct the January 11, 2021, election in strict observance with the constitution of the body. The body gave the warning shortly after it adopted elections committee nominated by the Chief Nnia Nwodo-led leadership for the elections. Imo-Obi Ohanaeze which is made up of former leadership, governors and former governors in Igboland, leadership of the traditional rulers council in all the five states in the South-East region, and some other categories of political office holders, said that it would continue to ensure that Ohanaeze flourished as a socio-cultural organisation. At a meeting in Enugu, the outgoing President- General, Nwodo assured the organ that his leadership would not impose a successor on the organisation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 