Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt THE Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, on Tuesday revealed that the accused bribe-seeking policeman, who allegedly stripped naked a bus driver identified as Saviour Nwidam. It was gathered that the policeman, who was alleged to have assaulted Nwidam along Ada George road in Port Harcourt on Monday for refusing to pay bribe, had been taken into custody and facing an orderly room trial. Mukan made the disclosure when the State and Choba branch chairmen of the Drivers’ Welfare Association of Nigeria led members of the union together with the assaulted driver to the office of the CP at the Command’s headquarters to demand justice. The state police boss pledged that the accused police officer was already facing an orderly room trial, adding that the police command under his watch would not condone any form of indiscipline as any police officer found culpable would be made to face justice. He said, “If somebody commits an offence, take the person to the station; I don’t see any reason why he (policeman) will stop a suspect on the road and inflict injuries on him.” Narrating the incident to the Commissioner of police, Nwidam said the accused policeman entered his vehicle at Agip junction and demanded a N100 bribe for loading passengers at the bus stop and when he refused to pay, the officer threatened to take him to the station. “He entered my vehicle and told me to pay N100 and when I refused to pay because I did not commit any offence, he ordered me to drive towards the police station. “On our way to the station, the policeman started hitting me with a baton and dragging the steering and forcing me to stop. After I stopped the vehicle, some policemen came, joined him and continued beating me, stripped me naked and damaged my vehicle.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 