Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri The police in Imo State have arrested one Godwin Onumajuru, 61, and Chukwuemeka Agubosim, 41, for allegedly planting a human head in the house of their kinsman, Emmanuel Onuwa. The spokesperson for the state police command, Orlando Ikeokwu, told our correspondent on Tuesday in Owerri that the suspects allegedly planted the human skull in Onuwa’s house in order to put him in prison. Ikeokwu said the suspects and Onuwa had a land dispute and Onumajuru and Agubosim conspired to set him up. He stated, “One Godwin Onumajuru, 61, and Chukwuemeka Agubosim, 41, both of Eziama Obiato in the Mbaitoli Local Government Area of Imo State, reported at the Divisional Police Headquarters that one Emmanuel Onuwa of the Mbaitoli LGA murdered an unidentified person and hid the head in a water tank in his compound as a result of which Emmanuel Onuwa and his children were arrested and a decomposing human head was recovered from the water tank in his compound. “However, Emmanuel Onuwa, in a bid to prove his innocence, wrote a petition to the Commissioner of Police through his lawyer requesting that the case should be re-investigated. “Sequel to it, the Commissioner of Police, Isaac Akinmoyede, ordered a revisit of the matter. However, upon discreet and painstaking investigation, Godwin Onumajuru, 61, and Chukwuemeka Agubosim, 41, were apprehended for planting the human head in the water tank. “Preliminary investigation revealed that both parties had been involved in a running battle over a land dispute, thus necessitating the setting up of/allegation against Emmanuel Onuwa in order to ensure that he is jailed so that they can have unhindered access to the disputed land. “They confessed to the crime, but claimed that they got the head from a corpse at the Njaba River bank. Efforts are ongoing to identify the corpse, while investigation is ongoing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 