Chima Azubuike, Gombe The Civil Society in Malaria Control, Immunisation and Nutrition (ACOMIN), says the organisation is looking forward to increasing malaria prevention and treatment in Gombe State. This was part of the resolutions in the address of state coordinator, Mrs. Hassana Maisanda, at a media parley where she stated the group’s scorecard. According to the state coordinator, through the collaborative efforts of the various communities, ACOMIN has been able to change the narrative, adding that the state had achieved a lot through various interventions. She said, “ACOMIN is implementing accountability and advocacy component and the project is being implemented in the thirteen GF malaria states, one of which is Gombe State. The Accountability and Advocacy project is being implemented in five Local Government Areas through Community-based Organisations. “There was the need for more staff at Debewa PHC, Kamo ward, Kaltungo LGA when ACOMIN went there to implement this project. Through advocacy to the community leadership, ACOMIN facilitated the employment of three volunteers from the community to this facility. These volunteers have resumed work and are being paid by the community. The intervention also brought about the running of shifts among the staff of the facility, thereby making services available to the community members for more hours each day. A similar success was achieved at Gujuba PHC. “A labour room in Kwami Model PHC, Kwami LGA had been out of use for quite some time because the ceiling was falling off. After discovering this issue, ACOMIN conducted advocacy to the community leadership through the Ward Development Committee and encouraged the community’s leadership to fix the problem rather than wait for the government to do it.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 