Olalekan Adetayo and Chima Azubuike The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Sunday mourned a former senator from Gombe State, Saidu Kumo, who died in the early hours of the day at the age of 71. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President described the death as “a major loss to the ruling APC.” The statement was titled “President Buhari mourns Senator Kumo, Abubakar Senior, describes Kumo, late APC chieftain as ‘our pillar of strength.’” Shehu also quoted the President as describing the deceased as the All Progressives Congress’ “pillar of strength in Gombe State whose defection in 2019 had energised our supporters for change.” “I have received the news of the death of Senator Kumo with profound shock and sadness because his contributions to the growth of our party cannot be forgotten. “Let me put it on record that the history of victory in 2019 cannot be written without reckoning with the significant contributions of the late Senator Saidu Umar Kumo who had brought his enormous political goodwill into our efforts to retain power,” Shehu further quoted Buhari as saying. He said, the President also mourned the death of Madawakin Keffi, Abubakar Senior, a distinguished civil servant and the second in command in the Keffi Emirate Council. “The President prayed to Allah to forgive the souls of Kumo and Senior, reward their good deeds with aljanna, and grant fortitude to their families, friends, associates, the governments and people of Gombe and Nasarawa States to bear the losses.” Also, the Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya, equally expressed grief over Senator Kumo’s death. Yahaya, in a message of condolence, said, “I join the immediate family of the deceased as well as the entire members of the Muqaddam family in mourning the distinguished political figure who lived an exemplary life and made his marks in the political history of Gombe state and the country in general.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 