Raphael Ede, Daud Olatunji, Umar Muhammed, Ada Wodu and Armstrong Bakam The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has  signed the state 2021  N338.6bn budget into law. The governor gave the assent barely twenty four  hours after it was passed by the State House of Assembly. Abiodun in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary , Kunle Somorin, on Wednesday, assured the people that the state would strive to recover from the challenges engendered by COVID-19 pandemic and forge ahead in the critical sectors of the economy. He said,  “The reality is that this second wave is more virulent than the previous. We must observe basic guidelines and stem the spread of the virus by wearing our face masks appropriately, washing and sanitising our hands and maintaining social distance. “If we keep these codes, I am optimistic that we will tame the spread and the 2021 fiscal year will witness increased prosperity as envisaged in this Act.” Also, the Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, on Wednesday signed the 2021 Appropriation Bill of N169.85bn, into law. Ugwuanyi in a statement expressed gratitude to the lawmakers for partnering him in his quest to make the lives of citizens and residents of the state better. The statement quoted the governor as reiterating his administration’s resolve to continue to serve the people of Enugu State with the fear of God and promised that the 2021 budget would be implemented for the benefit of all. Similarly, the governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule, has signed the N115.72 bn, 2021 Appropriation Bill into law. While assenting to the 2021 bill, in Lafia, on Wednesday, explained that the increased in the size of the budget was to help the state realise set objectives with respect to service delivery in the areas of education, health, agriculture and infrastructure among others. According to him, his administration was determined to achieve results despite the effects of COVID-19. Sule explained that his recent visit to the United States attracted development to the state. He said the visit afforded the state the opportunity to equip the state Infectious Diseases Centre as well as train health personnel. In a related development, the Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, on Wednesday signed the state’s N281.9, 2021 budget into law. Ayade announced that the budget made provisions for the establishment of a state polytechnic. Ayade said, “For the budget of 2021, the budget of ‘Blush and Bliss,’ the gross component is in the dramatic reduction of the budget size from over N1.01tn to N281bn. “We had explained this in the budget presentation that we are shifting from all the big, big dreams to the basic, primordial things of survival and ensuring that there is food on the table.” Similarly, the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has signed the N213.9bn 2021 budget into law. The budget was passed by the lawmakers 10 pm on Tuesday, two weeks after it was submitted by the governor. Before presenting the approved budget to the governor for assent, the Speaker of the Bauchi State Assembly, Abubakar Suleiman, said, “The approved 2021 budget estimates which has a total of N213.9bn, was presented to the Honourable House on the 15th of December, 2020. “The total amount consists of N92.9bn which represents 43 per cent recurrent expenditure while on the other hand, Capital Expenditure took 57 per cent of the total amount which is N120.9bn.” He explained that the timely passage of the budget was to provide the executive sufficient time to implement it. In response, Mohammed said, “We have already made arrangements with a bank to raise our IGR from the current status of about N700m monthly to N1.5 billion every month by employing about N4,000 youths at all the revenue generating points.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  