Deji Lambo A trader, Christy Mmakwe, has lost her life after being stabbed to death by a suspected robber, Usman Shefiu, at her shop in the Alaba Rago area of Ojo, Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that Christy was in her shop when Shefiu allegedly entered on the pretext of making a purchase but after a while, she suddenly ran out of the shop and started screaming for help. It was learnt that as the 30-year-old screamed for help, blood was gushing out of her neck and Shefiu ran out of her shop. A resident of the area, Farouk Ishola, said some good Samaritans quickly rushed Christy to a nearby hospital, but she gave up on the way, while some other persons gave Shefiu a hot chase and apprehended and handed him over to policemen at the Ojo Division. He said, “The woman (Christy) had a shop and this guy (Shefiu) entered her shop but could not give any reasonable explanation about what he came to do in her shop. The only thing we noticed after he entered the shop was that she rushed out of her shop with blood gushing out from her neck and she started shouting for help. “She was screaming that she had been stabbed and pointed at the man, Sheifu, who was fleeing from her shop. Immediately, some people gave him a hot chase and he was apprehended, while others took the woman to a nearby hospital, but she died on the way. She kept saying the guy stabbed her in the neck.” READ ALSO: Kaduna aborts publicised sex party, police apprehend organisers Another resident, who identified himself simply as Akogun, said Shefiu visited Christy’s shop to rob her of her valuables, adding that the trader’s family had buried her. He said, “The best guess is that Shefiu came to rob her of her valuables because a neighbour, who also sells close to her shop, said the face of the suspect is strange and not familiar in the area. So, instead of taking the law into their hands, those who arrested the suspect handed him over to the police. “Eyewitnesses confirmed that the suspect stabbed the woman inside her shop and no one was able to say what happened between them. The woman also lived in the shop and had children. The family took her corpse to the village for burial.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said Christy’s neighbour reported the incident to the police, adding that the case had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation. He stated, “One Peace Moses reported that she saw Usman Shefiu, 22, entering the shop of her neighbour, Christy Mmakwe, 30. Within a short period of time, she heard Christy calling for help and ran out of the shop with blood gushing out of her neck. “She was taken to the Kiladejo Private Hospital from where she was referred to the Igando General Hospital, but she died on the way. The suspect has been arrested and transferred to the SCIID for discreet investigation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 