Ade Adesomoju, Abuja A former governorship candidate on the platform of the African Action Congress in Adamawa State, Alhaji Said Uba, has filed a suit before the Federal High Court in Abuja seeking an order compelling the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to sack the service chiefs for their alleged failure to curb insecurity in the country. Uba also prayed for an order compelling the Federal Government to pay N100bn as compensation to victims of insecurity in the northern region of the country. The respondents sued in the suit are Buhari, the Attorney General of the Federation, the National Assembly, the Senate President, the Chief of Army Staff, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Chief of Air Staff, and the Inspector General of Police. The plaintiff argued that the law which designates the protection of lives and property as the priority of the government had been grossly violated as a result of the “alarming rate of insecurity”. He sought among other prayers, a declaration that “the respondents have failed in their responsibility to protect the lives and properties of Nigerian citizens which led to the deprivation of lives and indiscriminate destruction of properties in the country.” Other prayers contained in the suit read, “A declaration that the rights of the citizen to movement as enshrined in section 37of the Constitution has been hampered due to the failure of the respondents to adequately address the insecurity challenges in almost every part of the country thereby restricting free movement. “A declaration that the continuing bombing of the citizens properties particularly in the northern part of the country without curbing or putting an end by the respondents is a gross violation of the rights of citizens to own properties. “An order directing the President Buhari to immediately relieve the Service Chiefs of their duties for their inability to curb insecurity which is claiming lives and destroying properties of citizens. “An order directing each of the 1st to 8th respondents to tender a written apology to the Applicant within 7 days of the granting of this order in three major national dailies. “An order directing the respondents to pay the sum of N100 billion jointly and severally to the applicant as aggravated and exemplary damages for the unwarranted killing, kidnapping, banditry, inconveniences which the applicant is still being subjected to by the incompetence of respondents.” The matter is fixed for March 18.