Friday Olokor, Abuja The court-ordered re-run election into Magama/Rijau Federal Constituency of Niger State would take place on Saturday, February 6, 2021, the Independent National Electoral Commission has said. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman (Information and Voter Education Committee), Festus Okoye, made the announcement in a statement issued on Thursday evening in Abuja at the end of its management meeting. According to him, the meeting deliberated on some issues including the judgement of the Court of Appeal delivered on November 17, 2020, which affirmed the nullification of the return of Kasimu Danjuma of the All Progressives Congress as a member representing Magama/Rijau Federal Constituency of Niger State. He recalled that INEC conducted a bye-election in Magama/Rijau Federal Constituency of Niger State on March 14 2020 and returned Kasimu Danjuma of APC as duly elected. Okoye said that however September 21, 2020, the Election Petitions Tribunal disqualified Kasimu Danjuma of APC and nullified his election. READ ALSO: FG, ASUU stand-off will soon be resolved, says Fayemi Also on November 17, 2020, the Court of Appeal affirmed the disqualification and nullification of the said election and ordered the commission to conduct a re-run within 90 days from the date of the judgment. Okoye said, “It is important to note that the disqualification and nullification of the election were based on the ground that the candidate submitted forged documents to the commission and had nothing to do with any infraction on the part of the commission. “That only duly nominated and qualified candidates of African Democratic Congress, All Progressives Grand Alliance, and the Peoples Democratic Party are eligible to participate in the election. Fresh nomination of candidates is not allowed in a court-ordered re-run election. “That Kasimu Danjuma and the APC will not participate in the election, the candidate having been disqualified and the election nullified by the Court.” He said that INEC would give the statutory notice of election on January 11, 2021, while the political parties would submit the list of their party agents on January 29, 2021. Okoye said that the last day for campaigns would be February 4, 2021, while the election will take place on February 6, 2021.