Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo A former interim National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Bisi Akande, and the former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Thursday met Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, and his predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola, behind closed doors. The meeting, which commenced around noon at the Ila Orangun country home of Akande, lasted about three hours. Aregbesola, who was accompanied to the meeting by Mr Bola Ilori and ex-Lagos State Chairman of National Union of Road Transport Workers, Mr Akanni Olohunwa, arrived Akande’s residence around 11.45am. After the meeting, Oyetola and Aregbesola left the premises in the same vehicle, while Tinubu and Akande left in a helicopter. None of them spoke to journalists after the meeting. But an aide to Akande, Mr Lani Baderinwa, said the Minister of Interior, Aregbesola, was in the former APC leaders’s residence as part of his civic engagement as directed by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) Baderinwa said, “He has to come with the current governor. Whatever is the core of their discussion is not open to me. Incidentally, Asiwaju (Tinubu) as usual, who comes randomly without anybody knowing he was around, happened to be here too.” Similarly, a statement posted on Aregbesola’s Twitter handle read in part,  “Earlier today, I arrived the @StateofOsun with my entourage from the @MinofInteriorNG to begin my Stakeholders’ Engagement Meeting with different stakeholders in the state as directed by President @MBuhari. “Our entourage paid a courtesy visit to our leader and father, Baba Bisi Akande, alongside Governor of the @StateofOsun, Alhaji @GboyegaOyetola in Ila Orangun. Baba advised us on #Endsars, insecurity amongst other issues!” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 