Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja A former Minister of Education, Oby Ezekwesili, has started an online campaign calling for an independent medical examination to ascertain the physical and mental health of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Ezekwesili hinged her decision to start the #MedicalPanelOnBuhari on the fact that the country’s conditions had become too grave for Nigerians to sit still and watch “a train wreck in the making.” The former minister made her position known in a series of tweets she posted on her Twitter handle, @obyezeks, between Monday and Tuesday. She wrote, “We really must assess the physical or mental capability of @NGRPresident to carry on the duties of office. Citizens can collectively push for an independent panel to help us make the critical medical determination of the state of mind and body of our President, @MBuhari. “The conditions of Nigeria have become too grave for us all to sit still and watch a train wreck in the making.” In another set of tweets, Ezekwesili said it was a reasonable demand for citizens to have full disclosure on the President’s state of health. She wrote, “As an extremely concerned citizen, I hereby demand for a #MedicalPanelOnBuhari since we obviously cannot trust the State House physician to provide us accurate information. It is reasonable demand now for citizens to have full disclosure on the state of health of @MBuhari.” The former minister also took on the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, for saying the country was at the mercy of terrorists, insisting that medical examination must be conducted on Buhari. “Imagine…people who sought and received legitimacy from citizens to solve problems on their collective behalf sounding defeated. Imagine the chief spokesperson of government telling citizens that the country is ‘at the mercy of terrorists.’ We need a #MedicalPanelOnBuhari,” she wrote. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com