Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta SOME residents of the Aseese area of Mowe in the Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State have reportedly beaten three persons to death. The residents allegedly held five travellers with their vehicle on the suspicion of theft and killed three of them. It was gathered that after the residents beat three of the five persons to death, they set their vehicle ablaze. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this on Monday. Oyeyemi said the quick intervention of police from Mowe Division saved the other two from being murdered. The state police spokesman lamented that the allegation of theft against the victims had not been substantiated by anyone. He said this while warning against jungle justice by the people in the state. Oyeyemi added that the state police command had observed with great concern, the rate at which some members of the public were taking laws into their own hands and applying jungle justice on people suspected of crime. “The recent one was the unfortunate incident that happened in Aseese area of Mowe in Obafemi Owode LG area of Ogun State, where three people were beaten to death and their vehicle set ablaze on mere suspicion of theft, the allegation that has not been substantiated by anyone. “It was the quick intervention of police from Mowe Division that saved the other two from being gruesomely murdered,” he said. While warning specifically the commercial motorcyclists, the PPRO said, “Another group that is guilty of this barbaric act is the okada riders who are always in the habit of attacking motorists involved in an accident with any of their members. “Their usual practice is to set such a vehicle ablaze regardless of whether their member is at fault or not. “The command is hereby using this medium to warn that such unlawful behaviour will no longer be tolerated in any part of the state, and anybody caught in such dastardly act will be decisively dealt with in accordance with the dictate of the law.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 