Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A man, Idowu Shorunke, has been arrested by men of Ogun State Police Command alongside two assailants he contracted to kill a 55-year-old  land owner, Razaq Shotunde. The assailants reportedly killed Shotunde on Christmas Day by smashing his head on the way to his  Solomo  village in the Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this on Wednesday in a statement. Oyeyemi said the assailants, Daniel Ikwe and  Micheal Tedungbe, were arrested following a distress call to policemen at Owode-Egba division. He said the Police were told that the landowner was found dead along the road leading to Baseye village, with his head smashed with a heavy object. He said, “Upon the distress call, the DPO Owode-Egba division, CSP Mathew Ediae, mobilized detectives to the scene from where they started a thorough investigation. “Their efforts yielded positive results when one of the suspects was arrested with the help of people in the community. “The suspect led the police to his accomplice who was also apprehended. READ ALSO: Atheist spends holiday in prison as police disobey court order “The two suspects informed the police that it was Idowu Shorunke who contracted them to eliminate the deceased. “Their confession led the police to his house where he was promptly arrested. “On interrogation, the duo of Daniel Ikwe and Micheal Tedungbe confessed that they killed the man on the order of Shorunke who promised them N500,000.” The PPRO said  Shorunke admitted being the one who contracted the men to kill the land owner because of an issue over a portion of land. He said the Commissioner of Police,  Edward  Ajogun, had ordered further investigation and prosecution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 