Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt The Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, says an accused bribe-seeking policeman who allegedly stripped naked a bus driver in Port Harcourt is now being tried. Mukan made the disclosure on Tuesday when the State Chairman of the Drivers Welfare Association of Nigeria led members of the Union together with the assaulted driver to the office of the CP at the Force Headquarters in Port Harcourt to demand justice. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the policeman had stripped naked one Saviour Nwidam, a commercial bus driver, around Ada George Road in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital on Monday for refusing to pay a bribe. The state police boss, however, assured members of the association that the accused police officer was already facing an orderly room trial, adding that the police command under his watch would not condone any form of indiscipline as any police officer found culpable would be made to face justice. He said, “If somebody commits an offence, take the person to the station; I don’t see any reason why he will stop a suspect on the road and inflict injuries on him. “He (accused policeman) is not going to go scot-free, we have started our disciplinary procedures and he’s going bear the consequences of his acts because we didn’t send him out there to molest drivers. “The victim will continue his treatment, if he is strong enough, he will come and make his statement, I want him (Nwidam) to be very stable, but definitely, action has already been taken on the issue and all those involved must pay for it,” Mukan stressed. Narrating the incident to the police commissioner, Nwidam said the accused police officer entered his vehicle at Agip junction and demanded a N100 bribe for loading passengers at the bus stop and when he refused to pay, the officer threatened to take him to the station. “He entered my vehicle and told me to pay N100 and when I refused to pay because I did not commit any offence, he ordered me to drive towards the police station. “On our way to the station, the policeman started hitting me with a baton and dragging the wheel for me to stop. After I stopped the vehicle, some policemen joined him and started beating me. They stripped me naked, and damaged my vehicle.” Recall that on Monday, drivers at the Ada George road axis of Port Harcourt blocked the Chinda junction of the road in protest following the assault on their member.