John Alechenu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress on Thursday accused an unnamed governor of a state in the North-West of having ties to bandits and fueling insecurity across the region. This allegation was contained in a statement titled, ‘Investigate intelligence report linking North-west governor to banditry, APC charges security agencies,’ signed by the Ag. Deputy Publicity Secretary of the party, Yekini Nabena. He said, “The All Progressives Congress has challenged security agencies to investigate an intelligence report linking a North-west governor to the heightened cases of banditry, abductions and other violent crimes in the zone. “The party also warned the opposition Peoples Democratic Party against politicising the abduction of schoolboys in Katsina state.” The party spokesman said this in response to a protest organised by PDP supporters at the party’s campaign headquarters, popularly called Legacy House, located in Maitama District, Abuja. Nabena, however, did not name the governor allegedly involved, saying that he was keeping the name of the North-West Governor as a secret because of the sensitive nature of the intelligence report. He further alleged that the increasing spate of banditry in the North-West was politically-motivated and was exacerbated by the alleged sponsorship of the governor in question. Nabena said, “Our security agencies have intelligence reports linking one of the North-West governors of colluding and sponsoring the violent and criminal activities of bandits in the zone. I won’t give details because of the sensitive and security nature of the issue. “However, relevant security agencies must as a matter of urgency investigate the report and determine its veracity. Human life is not what we should play political chess games with. “We must shun enemies of the country including the PDP who seek political gains from issues of insecurity. “Our security agencies must also be alert to plots to further destabilise the North-west region and frustrate the quick and safe release of students abducted following late Kankara Katsina State: Student kidnapping for (GSSS Kankara Katsina State) secondary school.” Attempts to get a response from the PDP were futile.