Temiloluwa O’Peters The Nigerian Economic Summit Group has commended crowd-funding platform, Giving.ng, Shell, Flour Mills, and Nestle among others for supporting the recently concluded Nigeria Economic Summit. According to a statement issued on Wednesday, the event which held in November had participants from private and public sectors discussing how strategic partnerships could be used as a tool to achieve economic growth. Speaking at the event, the Chief Executive Officer, NESG, Laoye Jaiyeola, lauded sponsors for their support, adding that the group was looking forward to more engaging and rewarding partnerships with the organisations. Explaining the rationale behind the theme, ‘Building partnerships for resilience’, Jaiyeola noted the need for partnerships to revive the economy, as neither the government, civil society nor private sector could do it alone. According to him, all segments of the economy needed to come together to pool its resources and players must be consistent at implementing the plans on a sustainable basis. The Chief Executive Officer of Sterling One Foundation and owner of Giving.Ng, Olapeju Ibekwe, explained that her organisation supported the event to join hands together with NESG to mobilise available resources to ensure the speedy recovery of the economy. She noted that her organisation through the digital crowdfunding platform, Giving.ng, had relied on the support and ingenuity of Nigerians and other corporate bodies to deliver poverty alleviating programmes. Ibekwe said, “The aim and objectives of the summit are fully aligned with why Giving.ng was founded; that is why we decided that partnering with the NESG was an investment that would benefit the people of our country. “At Giving.Ng, we have in the time past relied on partnerships in delivering on our core mandate of reducing poverty rates among the people and we are glad to have worked with NESG on this important assignment.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 