Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, said the security challenges currently confronting the nation were beyond “the simplistic options being bandied around.” Buhari said this in his Christmas message to Nigerians. The message which he personally signed was made available to journalists by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina. With the increasing cases of banditry, kidnapping and insurgency in parts of the country, groups and individuals have been calling on the President to sack the country’s service chiefs among other suggestions. But Buhari, in his message, pleaded with Nigerians to give the military and other security agencies more time, cooperation, and support. The President said worthy values such as joy, peace, hope, love, goodwill, and imminent salvation, which Jesus’ advent symbolises, were needed in the country at this time when the nation is confronted with diverse challenges like the rising spate of armed banditry, kidnappings, insurgency, economic recession and upsurge of COVID-19 infections. He enjoined Nigerians to appropriate the hope that comes with Christmas and reinvest trust in his regime’s determination to restore peace, security, and prosperity to our country. Under his watch, Buhari promised that the Federal Government will continue to provide the needed support within available resources to members of the armed forces and security agencies as they confront threats to citizens. While commending the security agencies for their efforts so far, Buhari urged them to do more to checkmate increasing incidents of security threats especially in the northern parts of the country as well as the entire nation in varying degrees. He said their display of tact, camaraderie, and expertise that led to the recent return of abducted schoolboys of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, would remain a milestone in the annals of the country. The President said, “For me, providing security for all residents in the country remains an article of faith. It formed a vital segment of this administration’s three-point agenda right from inception, and we must follow through with it. “I cannot in good conscience shirk this cardinal responsibility to secure lives and property. I feel pained each time a breach of peace and security occurs in any part of the nation. I am even more distressed when our youths, especially school children, are the targets and victims of mindless and malevolent elements in society. “As a parent, I share the emotional torture and agony parents and guardians go through whenever their children and wards fall into the cruel hands of these enemies of decency and good society. “I plead with fellow compatriots to give our military and other security agencies more time, cooperation, and support by volunteering credible intelligence/information on activities of armed bandits, insurgents, and other criminal elements within their communities in order to put an end to this blight on our security landscape. “To be sure, the problems are beyond the simplistic options being bandied around. We shall remain focused on following the complex, multi-dimensional route to reducing the incidents of insecurity to the barest minimum. “Our people must be free to live and move without let or hindrance. This is crucial not only to enthroning an atmosphere of calm and social cohesion but for the economy to grow.” The President asked Nigerians to use the Christmas period to renew their faith in the ability of his regime to make a lasting difference in the lives of the people. He added, “Our social intervention measures and other economic policies are already yielding positive results even at modest rates. “We shall deliberately target our youths so that they will not fall into the trap of unpatriotic elements to foment social disobedience leading to avoidable loss of lives and property. “Let me reiterate that while the right to peaceful association and protest is guaranteed under our laws, this administration will not fold its arms and watch protests however well-intended, degenerate into wanton killings of law enforcement and other security personnel as well as the destruction of private and national assets. “It is gladdening to note that the various schemes and components of the Economic Sustainability Plan are being implemented faithfully to support micro-small businesses. I am particularly delighted that artisans, small-time transporters, traders, and farmers are the main beneficiaries as we continue to provide safety nets to the most vulnerable members of our society as well as business owners to mitigate the harsh economic environment occasioned by COVID-19. “In spite of dwindling national revenue worsened by the pandemic, we will do all that is required to fully implement the 2021 Budget of Economic Recovery and Resilience. We are optimistic that all things being equal, we should be able to exit recession at the shortest possible time.” Buhai said there were indications that Nigeria is already experiencing a second wave of COVID-19 infection. As Nigerians celebrate Christmas with families and friends, he urged them to adhere strictly to the non-pharmaceutical prevention guidelines of regular hand-washing, wearing masks, and social/physical distancing with a view to mitigating the spread of this devastating virus. “While national and state institutions are trying their best, we must take individual responsibility and resist the strong temptation of compliance-fatigue by following the recommended protocols put in place by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and beat the ravaging pandemic. “I have absolute confidence in the spirit of resilience of our people to do the needful and remain vigilant even as this festive season witnesses increased travels and celebrations. “Staying alive to enjoy future festivals should be the watchword. “I wish all Nigerians divine protection and Merry Christmas,” he concluded.