Samson Folarin The Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday presented a cheque of N10m each to the families of six policemen who died during the #EndSARS protest in the state. The affected policemen are ASP Yaro Edward, Inspector Ayodeji Erinfolami, Inspector Aderibigbe Adegbenro, Inspector Eyibor Samson, Sergeant Bejide Abiodun and Inspector Igochi Cornelius. The cheques were presented to the families of the cops at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, during the 14th Annual Town Hall Meeting of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund. Sanwo-Olu described the slain officers as heroes, saying the deceased sacrificed their lives to secure lives and property in the state. The governor said the government would never allow the conditions that led to the protest to happen again, adding that his administration was working to create opportunities for the youth and give them a pride of place. He added, “At the 2021 budget presentation on November 10, I stated that the Lagos State Government will commit N9.16bn to social protection in order to critically address other contributors to crime like substance abuse, youth unemployment and poor education. We believe that it is easier to prevent crime than to control it. “Consequently, in order to guarantee sustained peace and security, we will embrace a deliberate and determined approach towards crime prevention and preservation of law and order. We will also address the agitations of concerned residents of our state, particularly the youth, by implementing a robust communication strategy that will highlight government’s projects and initiatives.” The Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of the LSSTF, Dr Abdulrrazaq Balogun, said the task of rebuilding Lagos was huge and solicited support from well-meaning Nigerians and corporate organisations. He said LSSTF had provided 90 patrol vehicles and six units of outboard engine boats for security operations across the State in addition to logistics support provided for the personnel. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 