John Alechenu, Abuja The member representing Kabba-Bunu/Ijumu Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Tijjani Yusuf on Monday dismissed threats of sanctions against the leader of the Peoples Democratic Party, Kingsley Chinda, by the House Leader, Ado Doguwa, as mere wishful thinking. Yusuf, a member of the PDP caucus said the threat was of no consequence adding that it was an act of sycophancy for a non-member of the opposition to dabble into the affairs of the PDP. The House Leader had threatened to mobilise his colleagues to sanction the PDP caucus leader for threatening to invoke the impeachment clause in the constitution following the failure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to address Nigeria’s worsening security challenges. In response, Yusuf, in a statement titled, “Impeachment: Purported Threat of Punishment, Mere Wishful Thinking, Part of Sycophancy Killing Democracy’ says Tee jay Yusuf,” dismissed Doguwa’s threat. Yusuf said, “A proper understanding of the duties and responsibilities of a House Leader in terms of policy formulation, party issues and democratic development would have motivated Ado Doguwa, to respond to the Minister of Justice’ s view that the House cannot invite the President over grave national issues. “People who are supposed to be knowledgeable should be adding value to robust democratic processes and practice. “But for someone who has been around the House of Representatives since 1999 to denigrate or belittle such, is very anti-democratic, highly disappointing, prankish and embarrassing to us all.” The PDP lawmaker wondered why his colleague failed to take issue with the kidnappings and wanton killing of innocent Nigerians across the country under the watch of the President but chose instead to attack a fellow parliamentarian for daring to tell truth to power. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    