John Alechenu, Abuja The National Reconciliation and Strategic Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party, has threatened to resign if the party’s National Working Committee undermines its operations. Chairman of the committee, Dr. Bukola Saraki, urged the Uche Secondus -NWC, to allow the panel carryout its assignment without undue interference. Saraki said this at the committee’s inauguration, at the PDP Legacy House, Maitama Abuja, on Wednesday. He said, “We are however very clear that our most important partner in this assignment is the NWC. Therefore, we seek your support and co-operation to ensure the success of this committee on its Herculean assignment. “The NWC must also give us free hand to operate. I want to make it very clear that we will put in our best. That is why we seek the cooperation of the NWC. “However, if we see any sign that the NWC is working to undermine us or that we are not working in sync in the performance of this assignment, with all sense of responsibility, we will not hesitate to tender our resignation. That is what the members of the committee have asked me to convey to you, Mr. chairman.” While expressing gratitude to the party for finding committee members worthy to be given such a huge task, Saraki said, “… the greatest challenge facing our country today is that of disunity, lack of unity of purpose and inability to focus on common national goals.” Earlier, National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus said, “The country is in dire need of men of high integrity who will prepare our party and our people for the 2023 general election. We have absolute confidence in them to carry out this assignment.” Other members of the six-member committee are a former Gombe State governor, Hassan Dankwambo; former House minority leader, Mulikat Akande; former Cross River State governor, Liyel Imoke; serving senator and former Katsina State governor, Ibrahim Shema and former President of the Senate, Pius Anyim. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com