Ade Adesomoju, Abuja A former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reformed Taskforce Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, on Thursday, collapsed during the resumed hearing in his N2bn money laundering trial at the Federal High Court in Abuja. The Thursday’s sitting was scheduled for the hearing of Maina’s no-case submission, following the close of the prosecution’s case with their ninth witness on Wednesday. After the case was called on Thursday, the defence lawyer, Anayo Adibe, applied for an adjournment of the case on the grounds that the Certified True Copies of records of proceedings which his team requested from the registry to be used for the preparation of the no-case submission had yet to be released. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s lawyer, Mr Faruk Abdullah, opposed the request for adjournment. Adibe was trying to convince the judge to adjourn the matter when Maina, who was seated beside the dock, suddenly slumped around 10.05am. Prison officials who brought him to court from custody rushed to attend to him as the thud of his fall drew attention to him. Justice Okon Abang immediately cut short the proceedings, saying he would return five minutes later. Maina, who was made to sit on the floor, was later taken out of courtroom for treatment. The judge who returned around 11am said the matter would continue, but Maina had not been brought back to the courtroom as of that time. Tne defence lawyer requested an adjounment of the case but the judge declined the request. Justice Abang said contrary to the defence lawyer’s claim that he had yet to receive the court’s Certified True Copies of the record of proceedings from the registry, the said documents had been ready for pick-up since December 8. He described the defence’s request for an adjournment as “a deliberate ploy to delay the trial”. But said since Maina did not return to the courtroom, the matter had to be adjourned. The judge adjourned till December 21. He also adjourned the money laundering  trial of Maina’s son, Faisal, who also jumped bail, till December 21, for his surety to appear to show cause why he should not be imprisoned for not being able to produce the fleeing defendant or provide the N60m bail bond. Fleeing Maina’s son arrested Meanwhile, Faisal has been arrested. The surety’s lawyer, Mr. M. E. Sheriff, urged the court to suspend hearing of the forfeiture proceedings on the grounds that he got information that Faisal had been arrested. “My lord, I was reliably informed that the Defendant had been arrested. He was arrested last night and he is in custody,” the lawyer said. The prosecuting counsel, Mr. Faruk Abdullah, confirmed the development but but said the defendant had not been handed over to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 