Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered an investigation into alleged threat to one Rev Ijeoma Emeribe’s life by suspected land speculators. This followed a complaint by the cleric who alleged that some police officers were unlawfully deployed during the illegal demolition of the structures on the land. Emeribe in a petition signed by her lawyers, Able Hands Legal Services, alleged that the said persons “unlawfully used the police to criminally intimidate, cause grievous bodily harm, trespassed on her land and willfully damaged her property.” The cleric said she purchased the 50-hectare landed property in Lugbe, Abuja, through her company, Tenache Lounge Ltd. but that the individuals had continued to trespass on it and also damaged the structures built on it. While acknowledging the petition, the IGP ordered that the matter should be investigated and the findings reported to him. Adamu’s directive was contained in a letter with reference number, 2000/IGP/SEC/ABJ/VOL 510/73, dated Nov. 11, signed by his Principal Staff Officer, DCP Idowu Owohunwa, and addressed to the Commissioner of Police in charge of the IGP Monitoring Unit. It read, “A copy of letter dated October 12, 2020 received from Able Hands Services on the above underlined subject. The Inspector-General directs that you investigate and revert back to him.” The complainant’s son, Remare Alex, said that their lives were in danger. “We feel very threatened and we want the public to know,” he said. He said the said land was purchased early this year and paid in full but the fence and other structures on it were pulled down. Alex noted, “The matter was reported to the Zone 7 police station. We continued work again and the people came back and pulled down the structures they were putting up, and we reported the matter again and wrote a petition. “We also reported to the Police Public Complaint Response Unit at the Force Headquarters which ordered that no one should enter the property but the said persons defied the order and destroyed the structures on the land with bulldozers.”