Nike Popoola Nigerian banks may record weak earnings growth in the 2020 financial year. Afrinvest Securities Limited stated this in its research on ‘The 2020 Nigerian banking sector report,’ which was released on Tuesday in Lagos. Part of the report read, “Nigerian banks could suffer weak earnings growth in 2020 following the adverse effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on their performance as well as counter measures introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria to support vulnerable businesses. “The combined effect of higher impairment charges and forex losses and the low yield environment (loan and investment securities) amid higher OPEX charges could lead to a steep decline in the bottom lines of Nigerian banks in the short term.” The report noted that the introduction of the minimum Loan to Deposit Ratio rate (65 per cent) which carried a penalty for defaulters had prompted banks to engage in mild pricing wars resulting in lowering of lending rates. It said loan restructuring had dragged interest income lower while the punitive policies by the CBN (Cash Reserve Ratio debits) would impact interest income as large pools of cash remained non-earning. It said, “Last, we note that rates in the fixed income market have compressed significantly due to robust liquidity positions. “In our view, we believe that non-interest income could be the major game changer for top line growth in 2020 as interest income comes under pressure.” It however said it expected to see a sustained increase in industry total loans as the DMBs complied with the CBN’s Loan to Deposit Ratio directive among others. The downside risks, it added, was the asset quality deterioration which could hamper earnings growth and other key financial metrics such as ROE and ROA in 2020 and beyond. Afrinvest stated that the climate for the banking sector in 2019 and the first half of 2020 was characterised by an assertive stance by the CBN and a change in business and operational dynamics. It noted that the CBN rolled out various policies targeted at driving credit into the real sector, while other guidelines addressed capital adequacy, risk management, forex rationing and consumer protection. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   