Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki There is a plot s to recall some National Assembly members from Ebonyi State, as well as some of the StateAssembly members who vowed to remain in the Peoples Democratic Party after Governor David Umahi defected to the All Progressives Congress. The eight National Assembly members elected on the platform of the PDP from the state had within 24-hours after Umahi made his defection to APC public, held a press conference in Abuja and disowned the governor for joining the APC; just as about eight out of the 24 state Assembly members had openly vowed to remain in the PDP. Umahi gave the hint on the plot to recall the lawmakers on Monday while addressing both elected and appointed officials of the 13 local government areas of the state who paid him a solidarity visit at the Governor’s Lodge. The governor said, “There is information they leaked to me that the grass roots are very angry with some National Assembly members, and some state Assembly members, and they want to use this opportunity to gather signatures at the polling units to recall them. “I don’t want you to do that. Please, don’t do that. Allow them to still exist. I am the father of them all; whether they like it or not.Allow them to be in peace, except any pikin wey say eh Papa go sleep. But until then, let there be peace.” Umahi further assured them that if he could conquer in 2015, when he had very few persons with him, the current political battle ahead of 2023 would be a walk-over. Umahi said, “In 2014 we don’t have up to the  per cent of the people we have now. So, if five per cent could do it, how much more this number we have now.” Umahi said he had sacrificed himself to forcefully bring South-East to the politics of the centre. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 