Hindi Livinus Former Governor Bala Ngilari of Adamawa State, Senator Elisha Abbo, and Senator Abdulaaziz Nyako, who dumped the Peoples Democratic Party and the African Democratic Party, respectively, on Saturday, in Yola, said they were in the All Progressive Congress to unseat Governor Ahmadu Fintiri as governor of Adamawa State in 2023. The chieftains, who are among the most prominent defectors into the APC, made this known at a unity meeting organised by the Adamawa APC caretaker committee led by Ibrahim Bilal. Bilal, who thanked Ngilari, Abbo, Nyako, and the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party in the 2019 elections, Chief Emmanuel Bello, for joining the APC, informed them that the party would provide a level playing field for every member. He urged the new party members to take active part in the forthcoming registration exercise to reposition the party in the state, so it could regain control it lost in 2019. He said, “The forthcoming APC registration exercise is open to any person who wants to join the party. We want you who have joined the party to know that we are all equal. We would want you to go back to your constituency to get members to take part in the registration exercise to reposition the party in the state to take control of power we lost to the PDP in 2019.” Yahaya Hammman-Julde, erstwhile chairman of the ADC, who represented Nyako and led all 27 state exco members of the ADC and all 21 local government chairmen of the ADC into the APC, said they returned to the APC to retake power. He said, “We have collapsed the ADC in Adamawa into the APC. We are making a return to join the APC, together with our leader, Senator Abdulaaziz Nyako, to retake government. We are very desirous of helping the APC retake power; this is our only aim. When Nyako was to return the entire membership of ADC, (we) said, ‘You cannot go alone. We would want to go with you, our commander.’” However, PDP state Vice Chairman, Timothy Vimtim, who defected alongside Ngilari and Abbo, speaking on behalf of the duo, said those coming from the PDP regretted playing any role in getting Fintiri to power. Vimtim said they would be glad to contribute in any way to help the APC wrest power from Fintiri. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 