Daud Olatunji,Abeokuta A stray bullet allegedly fired by an official of the Nigeria Customs Service  in Ogun State  has  killed one person. The incident happened during a clash with some rice smugglers in the Oke Ola area of Ilaro, in the Yewa South Local Government area of Ogun State. The clash occurred   barely four days after stray bullets allegedly fired by men of NCS killed one and injured three others during a confrontation, leading to a clash between   angry youths in Ayetoro area and the customs men. It was gathered that trouble started on Saturday in Ilaro when some customs officers stormed a hideout where the imported rice were allegedly hidden and began shooting into the air, which led to a clash between the suspected smugglers and men of the NCS. It was said a boy, who was playing football, was reportedly killed by a  stray bullet  fired by one of the customs officer. The residents of the area were said to have been infuriated by the killing of the boy, which caused pandemonium as youths of the ancient town trooped out to demand justice for the deceased. An eyewitness said no fewer than five persons sustained gun injuries during the clash. He said, “A  boy was killed by customs officers who were in Ilaro to make some seizures around Oke-Ola. This led to a serious crisis and the youths came out and make bonfires to express their anger.” The  Public Relations Officer of Ogun 1 Area Command of the NCS, Ahmed Oloyede, described the incident as unfortunate. He said “I heard about the incident, but I have not gotten detailed information of what happened. What I was briefed was that it was a joint operation that was conducted by the border drill officers and FOU. “They made some seizure and there was an altercation between them and some smugglers. They were attacked and all they could do to disperse the smugglers proved abortive. In the process, the smugglers tried to lynch the officers. So, they have to find their way out. “I don’t have detailed information at hand yet, but that’s just the brief information I have about the incident. “It is very unfortunate that when officers make an arrest, you see people, hoodlums in large numbers attacking operatives.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   