Nike Popoola The President, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers, Mrs Bola Onigbogi, has lauded AfriGlobal Insurance Brokers Limited for the technology introduced by the firm into the insurance broking business. She spoke during the virtual launch of InsurTech digital platform, called ‘AfriCover24/7’, in Lagos on Thursday. Onigbogi, who was represented by the Executive Secretary, NCRIB, Fatai Adegbenro, urged the company to use the platform to boost insurance confidence in the sector. She also encouraged the firm to ensure it operated in accordance with stipulated regulatory rules, adding that the NCRIB would continue to support brokers, especially those working hard to transform how insurance business was being practised. The Chairman, AfriGlobal Insurance Brokers Limited, Chief Sylverius Okoli, said technology remained the hub for business growth. The firm, he added, would use the platform to help remove all limitations policyholders faced in getting genuine insurance covers. It would also make insurance accessibility easy for the insuring public, he said. According to him, the platform was designed to assist businesses, individuals and technology providers access and redistribute insurance products with ease. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, AfriGlobal Insurance Brokers Limited, Casmir Azubuike, said the platform provided an opportunity for the public to procure insurance policies from insurance companies of their choice. He said, “The launch of Africover24/7 signifies a new milestone in our relationship with insurance community globally. “We are interested in speaking with insurtechs, solution providers and insurers interested in participating in this ecosystem initiative.” He said the firm had received all regulatory approvals for the platform to operate seamlessly, and that the public could get insurance quotes from the platform, commence and conclude their transactions on the platform. He said, “As the insurance sector is undergoing transformation and tries to future proof itself from further disruption, Africover24/7 is a breakthrough to platform economy where it is easy to develop new products and value-added services, fit for the customer of tomorrow. “What is more, it provides AfriGlobal Insurance Brokers Limited a unique opportunity to differentiate itself from competitors with a connected platform that allows the company to understand the customers and their needs.” The past Treasurer and Council member of the NCRIB, Mrs Ekeoma Ezeibe, applauded AfriGlobal for the stride and for projecting the image of the broking fraternity. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 