Ife Ogunfuwa The President of Afeximbank, Prof. Benedict Oramah, has lamented the impact of corruption on economic growth and investments in Nigeria and other African countries. Oramah, while delivering a keynote address at the 2020 Africa Business Ethics Conference in Lagos on Monday, said corruption was increasing uncertainties and reducing physical, human and financial capital in Africa. Oramah, who was represented by the Director of Compliance, Mr Idrissa Diop, noted that corruption and illicit financial flows had been a major impediment to trade and economic development in African countries. He addressed the theme, ‘Tackling corruption to reduce poverty, unemployment and insecurity in Africa: A necessity for building resilience’, at the event hosted by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry in partnership with the Center for International Private Enterprise. He said, “Corruption raises the cost of production and positively correlated to income inequality. Increases in corruption hurt the poor rather than the rich. It reduces the productivity of resources because it degrades the quality of such resources. “For example, as governments are fighting to control the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the management efforts will have detrimental effects on the quality of healthcare delivery and resources thus slowing down the recovery of economies impacted by the pandemic.” Afreximbank president said the bank welcomed support mechanisms such as ABEC, which aimed to complement the efforts of respective African governments in fighting corruption and promote the objectives in the Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2063. According to Oramah, Afreximbank as a development financial organisation supports efforts of good governance and anti-corruption, which in turn enhances the capacity to trade and development across Africa. Also, the Chairman, Standard Chartered Bank, Kenya, Patrick Obath, said private sector leaders needed to initiate interactions with the government in order to ensure policies that would change the way things are done are introduced. He said organisations internally should manage the implementation of change culture to ensure that people were not compromised. The President, LCCI, Mrs Toki Mabogunje, in her welcome remarks, said the conference was an avenue to have conversations on the practical solutions to address corruption as a strategic approach in reducing the high incidence of poverty and unemployment across Africa. According to her, African economies could no longer bear the increasing cost of corruption, which impedes socioeconomic development and minimises the capacity of African governments to lift their citizens out of poverty and create opportunities for the low-income segment of the society. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 