This Wednesday: The US Powerball, the most popular lottery game in the world, is coming to Nigeria with a staggering $231,000,000 jackpot! Powerball is the most popular lottery game in the world, a title it has held ever since it awarded a record-breaking $1.586 billion jackpot in January 2016. Powerball fever swept the world as people everywhere, including some who had never previously played the lottery, rushed to purchase their tickets. Luckily you, too, can play Powerball, no matter where you are, purchasing your Powerball tickets online at TheLotter. It has been over two months since the US Powerball jackpot was last won but there’s a chance it will be won in the upcoming draw, this Wednesday night. Powerball offers a staggering jackpot of nine figures: $231,000,000, and you could win it from Nigeria! In addition to the huge jackpot being raffled, Powerball has the advantage that you can participate online: without leaving home. For those who wonder if they can play powerball from Nigeria, this is not only possible but it is also 100% safe and legal. This is thanks to TheLotter’s lottery ticket messaging service. Thus, they break down any geographical barrier and allow people from any country in the world to participate. Who can play the Powerball lottery In the past, to participate in a lottery, you had to be physically in the country of the draw. TheLotter solved this problem completely by allowing anyone, from any country in the world, an equal opportunity to play with the ease and convenience of modern technology. Now, there is no need to waste time physically arriving at a store and waiting endlessly in line to buy the ticket. Here’s how you could win a $231Million jackpot from Nigeria: TheLotter has been calling lucky players since 2002, telling them: “Hello, you won the lottery!” Adrian Cooremans, TheLotter’s spokesman explains: “TheLotter gives players the opportunity to participate in the world’s biggest and most exciting lotteries. And the best part? Our customers don’t just play lotteries – they also win them! “Scores of TheLotter’s players have won Powerball prizes over the years and a number of our players have become Powerball millionaires after they matched the five main numbers in a lucky draw.” You can enter the Powerball draw for $231Million right here. TheLotter is the leading online ticket messenger service in the world. Lottery fans everywhere trust the site as a secure, safe, and simple way to play the biggest lotteries with official lottery tickets. Over the years, TheLotter has paid out over $100 million in prizes to more than 5.5 million winners from across the globe.