Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Officials, members of the Coalition of Northern Group, security experts as well as other participants on Monday, narrowly escaped death as thugs invaded the venue of the security summit in Kaduna State. The security summit organized by the CNG was starting at the Arewa House Auditorium, Kaduna the state capital when the armed thugs in their hundreds invaded the place. The Summit aimed to discuss ways to achieve synergy between communities and government security and design a uniform approach to the current security situation in the North. Participants at the meeting included retired military officers, retired police officers, religious leaders, traditional rulers, various women, youth, and trade associations. The meeting was coming on the heels of the abduction of students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State and other communities in the north. It was gathered that as the meeting kicked off, the thugs armed with dangerous weapons stormed the auditorium and unleashed terror on participants and guests at the meeting. Scores of people who gathered at the venue immediately took to their heels, some jumping through the windows. Reacting to the development, the CNG’s Spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, in a statement condemned the action of the armed thugs. In a statement titled ‘How sponsored thugs invaded CNG meeting,’ the CNG spokesperson wondered how armed thugs would freely move in the state capital without the intervention of security operatives. He said, “We regret to announce that armed thugs numbering hundreds were unleashed on the Arewa House venue of the security summit hosted by the Coalition of Northern Groups on Monday, December 14. Read also: Students abduction: Army making reassuring noises, says Mailafia “Just as the meeting was kicking off, sponsored armed thugs stormed the auditorium after subduing the civil guards at the gate. “They overturned tables shattered glasses, attacked the guests and officials, wounding several people and smashing vehicles parked in the premises. “It is disturbing that a battalion of armed thugs can stroll free across the streets of central Kaduna wielding dangerous weapons without the intervention of the security. Security only arrived hours after the thugs had left. “It is quite obvious now that some powerful forces are benefiting from the current security situation and would do everything for it to continue.
“We are now all the more committed to ensuring the safety and security of the North and its people.”