Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The percentage of Nigerians that have access to sugar fortified with Vitamin A has risen from 31 percent to 96 percent while the population reached with wheat flour fortified with iron and folic acid increased from 54 percent to 92 percent in the last three years. This is according to data presented by international non-governmental organisation TechnoServe, on Thursday. The data was presented at the 3rd Annual Nigeria Food Processing and Leadership Forum, which was chaired by business mogul, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, with Bill Gates participating via video conference. A statement at the end of the conference read in part, “Following three years of leadership engagement by the Federal Government and CEOs of the nation’s largest food processing companies, significant progress has been made fortifying Nigerian staple foods with micronutrients that are essential to achieving better health and nutrition for all. “According to data presented by international non-governmental organisation TechnoServe,
companies have significantly improved their compliance with food fortification standards in the span of three years. “Together, these producers reach more than 90 per cent of the Nigerian population. From 2017 to 2020, the population reached with wheat flour fortified with iron and  folic acid increased from 54 percent to 92 percent; the population reached with sugar fortified  with Vitamin A increased from 31 percent to 96 percent; and salt iodization levels were  maintained at 95 percent.” According to the report, edible oil fortified with Vitamin A also made progress, but to a lesser degree, with the population reached with fortified cooking oil increasing from 25 per cent to 32 percent. The statistics imply that an additional 125.7 million Nigerians now have access to sugar fortified with vitamin A; an additional 73.5 million have access to wheat flour fortified with iron and folic acid; and an additional 13.8 million have access to cooking oil fortified with vitamin A. The Minister of Trade and Investment,  Adeniyi Adebayo, described the statistics as impressive especially at a time the economy had been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. Adebayo said, “Given the impact of COVID-19 on our economy, I am particularly impressed with the leadership we have seen from our food companies. Our industry leaders have shown that even during an international public health crisis and an economic crisis, we can still deliver good nutrition for all  citizens, including our poorest, through production and distribution of widely consumed fortified.” Dangote, who is the Chairman of the Aliko Dangote Foundation, said the private sector remains the engine of growth for the Nigerian economy. The philanthropist stated that giving companies the tools they need to effectively fortify their foods, helps create a sustainable path to delivering Nigerians food that will help them live healthier, more productive lives. Lending his voice to the discussion, Co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates  Foundation, Bill Gates, said, “Vitamin A is one of the most critical nutrients kids need to grow up healthy—but too few kids receive a sufficient amount in their diet. “The world needs to fortify more foods with Vitamin A. The leaders in this meeting
have already shown what’s possible for wheat flour, salt, and sugar. I hope that by the next time  we meet, cooking oil will be added to the list.” One out of three Nigerian children under five are stunted—their bodies and brains deprived of the key nutrients they need to fully develop to reach their full potential. Over the long-term,  stunting results in a 10 to 17 percent loss of wages. When multiplied across the nation, it’s estimated that Nigeria loses more than $1.5bn in GDP annually as a result of diminished productivity and increased healthcare costs. “If Nigeria is really serious about creating jobs, expanding its markets and growing its economy,  nutrition and food systems should be put in the centre of the conversation” said Larry Umunna, West Africa Regional Director, TechnoServe.