Samson Folarin THE most widely read newspaper in Nigeria, The PUNCH, has clinched four major prizes at the 28th edition of the Nigerian Media Merit Award. The PUNCH Editor, Ademola Oni, won the Editor of the Year, while two reporters, Samson Folarin and Tunde Ajaja, and a former correspondent, Simon Utebor, won in three other categories. The award, which held on Friday at the Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, was attended by some dignitaries and representatives of media houses, while the nominees were connected via Zoom due to COVID-19. Oni was voted winner of the Dele Giwa Prize for Editor of the Year, beating Adeniyi Adesina of The Nation and Paul Onomuapokpo of The Guardian to the prize. A senior correspondent with The PUNCH, Folarin, won the Alex Ibru Prize for Investigative Reporter of the Year. Folarin won the category with his entry titled, ‘Certificate, plagiarism scandal rocks Nnamdi Azikiwe University’, a 10-part series which led to the sacking of a senior lecturer and withdrawal of his fraudulently acquired certificates, including verification of certificates of staff of UNIZIK. Folarin, who had two nominations in the category, beat Innocent Duru of The Nation to the award. It is the second time the reporter will be winning the category in three years, clinching the Print Journalist of the Year in the intervening period. A correspondent with the Weekend PUNCH, Ajaja, won the Bukola Saraki Prize for Agriculture Reporter of the Year. Ajaja won the Maritime category in 2019. This year, his winning entry is titled, ‘Remarkable tales of youths who found gold on farmland’. Chikodi Okereocha and Oyesina Fadare, both of The Nation, were runners-up. Ajaja was also a runner-up in the Cecil King Memorial Prize for Print Journalist of the Year, which he lost to Innocent Duru of The Nation. A former senior correspondent with the Weekend PUNCH, Utebor, won the MTN Prize for Telecommunications Reporter of the Year with his entry, ‘Telecoms base stations under siege of battery, inverter robbers, poorly-paid guards.’ He beat Adepetun Olalekan of The Guardian and Okafor Anthony of The Vanguard to the prize. A Weekend PUNCH correspondent, Afeez Hanafi, was a runner-up in the Nigerite Prize for Real Estate/Construction Reporter of the Year. Ayeyemi Jacob of The Telegraph won the category. Hanafi also missed the Bashorun MKO Abiola Prize for Sports Reporter of the Year, where he was nominated alongside Ajibade Samson of New Telegraph, and Ifetoye Oluwasegun of The Guardian. Oluwasegun won the award. A sub-editor with The PUNCH, Eniola Akinkuotu, narrowly lost the Adamu Muazu Prize for Tourism Reporter of the Year to Yusuf Apekhade of The Nation. A serial award winner and photojournalist with The PUNCH, Saheed Olugbon, was a runner-up in the News Photographer of the Year, which was won by Abiodun William of The Nation. Two PUNCH correspondents, Ige Oluwatofarati and Olomilua Ademola, missed the Olu Aboderin Prize for Entertainment Reporter of the Year to Innocent Duru of The Nation. The PUNCH was a runner-up in the Prize for Editorial Writing of the Year, which was won by The Guardian. The Babatunde Jose Prize for Newspaper of the Year was won by The Nation, with The PUNCH and The Guardian as runners-up. The PUNCH won the award in 2019. In the radio category, Mary Fatile of Radio Nigeria won the Radio Reporter of the Year for her entry, ‘Missing Women involving Olabisi Olabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Ago Iwoye.’ She beat Adejoke Fayemi of Raypower to the prize. The Radio Station of the Year was won by the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, which had the three nominations in the category. In the television category, Sharon Ijasan of Television Continental was voted winner of the Cadbury Nigeria Plc Prize for Television Reporter of the Year for her entry, ‘Child Labour.’ Abimbola Agbebiyi and Ovieteme George, both of TV Continental, were runners-up. Gimbar Umar of Channels TV won the Television Newscaster of the Year, while Mike Okwoche of TV Continental was the runner-up. Ladi Akeredeolu-Ale of Channels TV also won the Television Programme Presenter of the Year. The NBC Prize for Television Station of the Year was won by TV Continental, while Channels TV and Arise were runners-up. The Chairman, Panel of Assessors, Nigeria Media Merit Awards, Prof. Ralph Akinfeleye, said in spite of the uncertainties of 2020, the media responded to the call for entries “overwhelmingly.” He noted that the panel received a total of 895 entries from 665 entrants, as against the 752 entries it got from 520 entrants in 2019. Akinfeleye, however, said no award was given in seven categories because none of the entries met the 70 per cent cut off mark for nomination. They are the Brand Marketing Reporter of the Year, Oil and Gas Reporter of the Year, Aviation Industry Reporter of the Year, Business Publication of the Year, Radio Broadcaster of the Year, TV Production of the Year, and TV Drama of the Year. While asking media owners to invest in investigative journalism, the Mass Communication and Journalism professor said there was also the need for female reporters to do more. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 