Sunday Aborisade  and Leke Baiyewu The Senate on Wednesday passed an executive communication from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), seeking the extension of the implementation of the capital components of the 2020 budget from December 31, 2020 to March 31, 2021. Buhari, through his Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, had in a letter to the National Assembly on Tuesday requested the extension to enable the executive to implement the capital component of the budget. The President had said the COVID-19 pandemic prevented the ministries, department, and agencies of government from implementing capital aspects of the budget. The lawmakers amended section 12 of the 2020 Appropriation Act by adding a proviso that the implementation of the capital component of the 2020 budget be extended to March 2021. This means that the two proposed fiscal documents when signed into law would run concurrently. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, after the approval, assured Nigerians that the development did not alter the January to December budget cycle of budget implementation. The Senate explained that it decided to extend the implementation of the capital components of the 2020 budget till March to ensure proper utilisation of the funds already disbursed to the MDAs. The Spokesperson for the Senate, Dr Ajibola Basiru, who gave the explanation at a press briefing on Wednesday, added that both 2020 and 2021 budgets would run concurrently. Meanwhile, Lawan announced on Wednesday that the Senate would on Monday next week hold a special session to consider and pass the 2021 budget currently being put together by the National Assembly committees on appropriations. Lawan made this known during plenary following a motion by the Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, and seconded by the Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe. The Senate President said the delay in the approval of the budget was to allow the appropriations committee accommodate a late request for additional expenditures from the executive arm of government. He said, “Our Committee on Appropriations has been working round the clock.” National Assembly to approve 2021 – 2023 MTEF/FSP today Also on Wednesday, the Senate stepped down consideration of the Conference Committee Report 2021 – 2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper. The request to step down consideration of the 2021 – 2023 MTEF report till Thursday (today) was moved by the Senate Leader and seconded by the Minority Leader. The House of Representatives equally reviewed the 2020 Appropriation Act, extending the expiration date for the capital component of the national budget to March 31, 2021. Meanwhile, the House, also on Wednesday, considered and adopted the report on the 2021 Appropriation Bill of the Nigerian Communications Commission. Chairman of the House Committee on Telecommunications, Akeem Adeyemi, had laid the report on Tuesday. Out of the NCC’s total sum of N162.07bn, N61.54bn was allocated for recurrent expenditure. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 