Kayode Idowu, Maiduguri Nigerian monarchs have asked the military why it cannot occupy Sambisa Forest and Lake Chad region still housing Boko Haram insurgents. Speaking on Monday, the Sultan of Sokoto and Co-Chairman of National Council of Traditional Rulers, Sa’ad Abubakar, who led other top monarchs to Maiduguri to condole with the government and people of Borno State on the killing of rice farmers by Boko Haram in Zabarmari, said the military should occupy the Lake Chad region and the Sambisa forest. Sultan Abubakar said, “I read the comment the governor made some few weeks ago, challenging the military to take the fight to the Lake Chad to clear that place. Your Excellency, while I was a Lieutenant, I was at Lake Chad in Baga for six months, my battalion in Bama used to rotate with the battalion in Monguno and Maiduguri every six months. “We occupied the Lake Chad part of Nigeria for six months. I was the operation officer and I have my maps. In Lake Chad that time, we had 36 islands under Nigeria, we occupied 16 of them, the biggest was King Nasara, we controlled that part of Nigeria effectively well as a battalion. “Now, I don’t know why we can’t occupy the whole of Lake Chad and why we can’t occupy the whole of Sambisa forest. If we want peace, we have to dominate these areas. If we want peace, we have to do away with those terrorists who occupy that place and see nothing good in other people except those that believe in their own negative ideas.” Earlier, the Shehu of Borno had assured Governor Babagana Zulum that the traditional rulers would give all the maximum cooperation to security agencies in the fight against insurgency. Responding, the governor thanked the royal fathers for the special visit. The governor said in order to address insecurity, there was need to provide sources of livelihoods to the Internally displaced Persons and those resettled in rebuilt communities. With the Sultan on the visit are the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemaka Alfred Ugochukwu; Oore of Otun-Ekiti, Oba Adekunle Adebayo,; the Emir of Hadeja, Dr. Adamu Abubakar Maje; the Emir of Fika, Mohammed Abale Ibn Mohammed Idrissa and Amanyanabo of Opobo Kingdom, King Dandasen Douglas Jaja. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 