Tell me about your company. At TMD Cakes, we produce and sell high quality cakes, pastries and desserts. What is your educational background? I am a 500 Level student of Surveying and Geo-Informatics Engineering at the University of Ilorin. When and how did you learn how to bake? Learning how to bake was surreal for me. If I had been told five years ago that I would be a baker today, I would have vehemently disagreed. On my birthday four years ago, I wanted to order a cake in school but when I heard the price, I exclaimed that it was too expensive. I felt that ‘ordinary’ mixing of butter and sugar should not cost that much. There and then, I decided to learn how to bake and make money. However, I did know all what it entailed. Few weeks later, I saw a flier in school announcing free training for future entrepreneurs. Me and my friend decided to go for it but we did not learn much. After some time, my hostel mate connected me with a friend of hers who was fully into the business. I learnt for about a month because I am a fast learner. After few weeks of training, I was doing a lot of things by myself. How long have you been in business? I have been in the business officially for three years. Was there anything you were doing before venturing into cake making? Before I learnt how to bake, I had already learnt how to sew but I was not so good at it. I was not convinced it was what I wanted to do. But for baking, everything came easily. It happened so quickly and I felt comfortable doing it. That was a huge motivation for me― knowing there was something I had fallen in love with. How much was your initial capital and how did you raise it? I cannot really state how much my initial capital was. However, I started by buying the most important tools I would need for the job. They were not too expensive at that time and I used part of my pocket money to get them. What are the major challenges you have faced? Baking is quite stressful. It is a long process and requires a lot of time and labour. Division of labour is necessary when the business expands. For places such as Lagos where there are always delivery issues, the distance between one’s store and delivery locations could be stressful. Customers cancelling orders due to the high cost of delivery, difficulty in fixing a suitable price just because customers can get them cheaper, are other challenges I grapple with. How do you get customers? I get a large percentage of my customers through Instagram and referrals from friends and family. I also go to new places to introduce myself and advertise my business. Have you ever thought of quitting your business to seek paid employment? Yes, there have been times I felt like taking an office job and getting paid at the end of every month. I figured that then, I would not have to run around markets, or keep up with social media, looking for customers. Is your business registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission? Yes, it is. How profitable is the business? Cake business is very profitable. The bigger the business gets, the more profit one makes. Where do you see yourself and business in the next five years? In the next five years, the company would have grown very big. I trust God solely for every step of our growth. I see us meeting the cake needs of thousands of people, touching lives with quality cakes at good prices, good customer services, and building other branches. How many employees do you have? I don’t have full-time employees but there are two interns and a student with me. What has been the most influential factor in your business success? The most influential factor in my business has been God. If you had one piece of advice for someone just starting business, what would it be? My advice to someone starting out is most importantly, put God first. Be sure it is what God wants you to venture into. Know his plan for you at every step of the way. Secondly, what is what doing is worth doing well. Take your time to learn about the business you want to venture into. Pay to learn and take free classes when they come your way. Just make sure you are good at it. Your name can go a long way, depending on how you portray it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   