Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Federal Capital Territory Administration has issued fresh COVID-19 guidelines regulating congregations, workplace and market places to minimise further spread of the virus in Abuja, the nation’s capital. Announcing the guidelines in Abuja, on Friday, the FCT Minister, Muhammad Bello, stated that enforcement teams would be out on the streets to ensure compliance. Bello also disclosed that the FCT Administration would be working very closely with the judiciary through the Mobile Courts under existing laws. He said that COVID-19 figures over the last three weeks in FCT had been unacceptably high and there was an urgent need to contain it as much and as fast as possible. The minister, therefore, said that mandatory temperature checks must be carried out on all employees and customers entering office and business premises in the FCT. Bello said that all staff members, visitors and customers entering workplaces, shops or business premises must wear a face mask that should cover the mouth and nose. He noted, “No mask, no entry, no service. All office and business premises must have a handwashing station with running water and soap or hand sanitizer. “Employees who are feeling unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms should notify their supervisors immediately or stay at home and seek medical attention to confirm diagnosis by doing a COVD-19-test. “While the above guidelines regulate formal workplace and business environment, the holiday season demands that we also place special emphasis on market places, places of worship and entertainment as well as recreational centres which traditionally attract large gatherings during this period.” READ ALSO: Masari laid foundation for kidnapping in error, says Ejiofor, ex-DSS director He directed the Abuja Markets Management and the various market associations to work together to carry out sensitisation activities and ensure compliance of all extant health protocols. Bello, who said that all extant regulations issued as conditions for reopening of places of worship on the June 4, 2020 still subsists, urged heads of various congregations to ensure compliance. “Public transportation facilities such as buses taxis and tricycles must also obey all already established protocols,” he stated.