Nike Popoola The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers has said it expects insurance laws to foster sustainable growth and development of the brokerage profession. The President, NCRIB, Mrs Bola Onigbogi, said this during the December edition of the brokers’ evening, which was sponsored by Allianz Nigeria Insurance Plc. She said, “It is most heartening that our council was one of the notable stakeholders invited to make input at the public hearing on the insurance bill before the House Committee on Insurance and Actuarial Matters in Abuja from December 14 to 15, 2020. “The council definitely put up a good showing at the event, and all the views that had been submitted by all members were part of the submission made at the public hearing. “I assure we shall continue to watch and monitor proceedings concerning the law, with the hope that the outcome would be to the sustainable growth and development of our profession.” According to Onigbogi, since the insurance industry is a composite industry, the council has continued to advance positive collaboration with other bodies within the industry such as the Nigerian Insurers Association, the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria and the Institute of Loss Adjusters of Nigeria. She said while sustaining the tempo of technical relations with the NIA, the NCRIB had continued to encourage underwriters to always see the sense in patronising only current members of the NCRIB for credibility. She said, “We are not resting on our oars to educate the public to always insist on engaging only registered insurance brokers when placing their insurances. “Our relationship with the National Insurance Commission has also been enhanced; the result is obvious in our dealings with the commission. We will continue to use every opportunity within our disposal to see better collaboration with the regulatory body.” She also expressed the council’s worry about the spate of killings, kidnapping and other vices bedeviling the country. While condemning such acts, she said it was pathetic that some unscrupulous elements, under whichever guise, seemed to have determined to make the nation unlivable. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    