Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Special Offences Court has sentenced one Olaniyi Ogungbaiye to five years’ imprisonment for his involvement in N9.2m internet scam. Ogungbaiye was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on four counts bordering on conspiracy, obtaining money by false pretence, retaining stolen property and transfer of property derived from an illegal act before Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo. According to the EFCC, the commission received a petition sometime in 2018 from the Federal Bureau of Investigation requesting for an investigation into the activities of Ogungbaiye and his co-conspirators, Olarenwaju Osiefa and Daniel Ethan, in respect to a dating and business email compromise scam. The prosecution opened its case on June 8, 2020, and called three witnesses which included an investigator from the FBI. Delivering her judgement, Justice Taiwo who held that the circumstantial evidence of the prosecution was strong and compelling, found the defendant guilty on two counts out of the four counts. Justice Taiwo said, “I have considered the allocutus of defence counsel and submission of the prosecution. The offence of money laundering is very rampant in Nigeria, particularly amongst cyber-crime offenders. The persons who launder illegally obtained funds; help conceal the illicit source of such funds thus enabling the fraudsters to perpetrate their crimes. “In the light of this, I sentence the defendant to three years’ imprisonment with no option of fine on the count brought under Section 328 Criminal Law of Lagos State. I sentence the defendant to two years imprisonment for the offence under Section 333 Criminal Law of Lagos State. The sentences are to run concurrently.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  