Temiloluwa O’Peters Estate surveyors have highlighted the need for a vibrant mortgage system, partnerships and the adoption of technology in real estate sector. They spoke at the 50th anniversary symposium of the Nigerian Institute of Estate Surveyors and Valuers, Lagos State Branch. During the symposium on Thursday, a former Chairman of the branch and former President of the institute, Oghenakpobo Idudu, called on the government to establish and maintain a vibrant mortgage system in the economy. Idudu noted that this was necessary as funding remained the biggest challenge of people desiring decent homes and seeking services of estate surveyors and valuers. He said, “Many people cannot buy housing because they have no means; we do not have a vibrant mortgage industry. “We need money to have a vibrant mortgage industry. If the political will was there, we would have been able to push this forward and make housing cheaper and more accessible.” The former president also advised the branch members to focus on making their services cheaper, so the poor could access their professional input in the housing sector. Earlier in his welcome address, the President of NIESV, Emmanuel Wike, represented by the first Vice President, Johnbull Ameyeavbo, called on members to continue to defend the profession. He urged them to build core competencies against onslaughts of quacks and other professions attempting to hijack the jobs of real estate surveyors and valuers. He said, “As a professional body, we are not relenting in our efforts to align with the best global practices in the practice of our profession in Nigeria. We embrace this option for the singular reason of being more impactful to our communities and the nation.” Also in his welcome speech, the Chairman of the Branch, Adedotun Bamigbola, noted that the challenges facing the profession in the next 50 years bordered on maintaining international ethical standards, research, proptech and infractions in the sector in various areas of practice. According to him, these underscore the need for ESVs, particularly those practicing in Lagos State, to take charge and evolve to make the necessary professional impact on the state and the society at large through value addition. “We need to build on our rich history and the dedication of our past leaders to confront the challenges of the future. The symposium is organised on this historical day to take us down the memory lane and to project us into the future which the profession should prepare for,” Bamigbola said. The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, represented by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Housing, Ayodeji Amodu, congratulated the institute on its sustained relevance in the real estate and property sector. He noted that the symposium’s theme, ‘We build cities: NIESV Lagos and Real Estate-1970 – 2020’ was apt and aligned with the vision of his administration. The governor appreciated the branch for their contribution, noting that the agenda to build a Lagos that compared with modern city states in terms of planned built environment with affordable and decent housing, could not be singularly achieved by the government. He enjoined the association to continue adding value to policy making for implementation process in the sector as well as educating members on the need to be law abiding and discharging their civic duties. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 