Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has approved the promotion of 4,134 traffic warden officers to their next ranks. The beneficiaries include 65 officers who were elevated to the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Traffic; 245 officers to Assistant Superintendent of Traffic II; 138 officers to Senior Traffic Warden; 3,683 men to Grade I and three men who were elevated from Grade III to Grade II. This was contained in a statement on Thursday, by the force spokesman, DCP Frank Mba, titled, ‘IGP promotes 4,135 traffic Warden officers.’ It read, “The IG notes that the promotion of the officers is part of the ongoing efforts by the Force to ensure that deserving personnel are promoted accordingly, to encourage hard work and further entrench the culture of merit, excellence and dedication to duties.” Meanwhile, the Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi has ordered the immediate deployment of logistics, 36,000 personnel and Special Marshals nationwide, to ensure free flow of traffic and safety during the Yuletide season. According to a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer, ACM Bisi Kazeem, the Corps Marshal also ordered a strategic 24-hour observatory at commands along gridlock-prone areas, establishment of 11 traffic control camps, full mobilization of 23 help areas and 46 emergency ambulance (Zebra) points. The special operation also include the full mobilisation of roadside clinics and 24/7 broadcast on the National Traffic Radio 107.1 FM. He revealed that the directive was targeted at achieving a near-zero road traffic crash throughout the period. READ ALSO: Boko Haram releases video showing abducted ‘Kankara schoolboys’ Kazeem stated, ‘The 2020 Operation Zero tolerance commenced from Monday, Dec 12, 2020 spanning through to Monday, Jan 15, 2021 nationwide. “The operation is programmed to run in shift as follows: 0600hrs – 1400hrs, 1400HRS – 2000hrs, 2000hrs – 2200hrs, and night rescue teams are on standby at all operational Commands. “It is billed to cover the following critical corridors: Sokoto-Tambuwal-Jega-Birnin Kebbi corridor, Katsina-Kano-Wudil-Dutse-Azare-Potiskum corridor, Kaduna-Saminaka-Jos corridor, Abuja-Kaduna-Kano corridor, Okene-Ogori-Isua-Owo corridor, Makurdi-Otukpo-Obollo Afor-9th Mile corridor, Asaba-Abraka-Ughelli-Warri corridor, Ibadan-Ogere-Sagamu corridor, Sagamu-Mowe-Lagos corridor, amongst others.”