‘Femi Asu Eleven of the nation’s 27 power plants did not generate any megawatts of electricity on Monday as a result of several factors, including the expiration of insurance cover and gas supply shortage. Other factors responsible for the shutdown of the plants included grid collapse, fire outbreak, maintenance, frequency response and rupturing of gas pipeline. The number of plants sitting idle rose to 11 as of 6:00am on Monday, from seven on Sunday following the collapse of the national grid. The national grid collapsed on Sunday morning after multiple tripping, plunging parts of the country into a total blackout for hours. Total power generation in the country fell to 4,324 megawatts as of 6am on Monday from 4,469.90MW the previous day, according to data obtained from the Nigerian Electricity System Operator. The data showed that the idle plants included five of those built under the National Integrated Power Project, namely Alaoji, Sapele II, Olorunsogo II, Ihovbor and Gbarain. One of the NIPP plants, Ihovbor, was out due to expired insurance cover, according to the data. The other idle plants were Afam IV&V, Afam VI, Ibom Power, AES, ASCO and Rivers IPP. Two units (GT11 and GT12) at Afam IV & V were said to have been scrapped; GT13, 14 and 16 out on blade failure; while GT17 and GT18 out due to gas constraint. Sapele’s GT1 and GT2 were out due to gas constraint, while GT3 GT4 out on maintenance. Alaoji’s GT1 and GT2 were out due to high air inlet differential pressure; GT3 out on maintenance and GT4 awaiting spare part. At Olorunsogo, GT1 was out on inspection; GT2 out for combustion inspection; GT3 due to gas constraint, and GT4 out due to cooling water system leakage. A unit at Gbarain was shut down due to the rupturing of the gas pipeline, while Rivers IPP’s GT1 was out due to gas constraint. Afam’s GT11, GT12 and GT13 were out due to gas constraint while ST10 was on observation. Ibom Power’s GT1 was out on inlet guide vane problem; GT2 out due to fire outbreak on the control panel, and GT3 was yet to be tied after system disturbance of Sunday. AES has been out of production since September 27, 2014, while ASCO’s ST1 unit is out due to leakage in the furnace, according to the NESO data. The nation generates most of its electricity from gas-fired power plants, while output from hydropower plants makes up about 30 per cent of the total generation. The system operator put the nation’s installed generation capacity at 12,910.40MW; available capacity at 7,652.60MW; transmission wheeling capacity at 8,100MW; and the peak generation ever attained at 5520.4MW Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      