Temiloluwa O’Peters The United Nations Environment Programme has called on governments to prioritise low-carbon buildings in pandemic stimulus packages and updated climate pledges. UNEP’s annual Emissions Gap Report 2020 disclosed that emissions from the operation of buildings hit their highest-ever level in 2019, moving the sector further away from fulfilling its huge potential to slow climate change. The 2020 Global Status Report for Buildings and Construction, from the Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction, found that while global building energy consumption remained steady year-on-year, energy-related CO2 emissions increased to 9.95 GtCO2 in 2019. According to the report, the increase is due to a shift away from the direct use of coal, oil and traditional biomass towards electricity, which had a higher carbon content due to the high proportion of fossil fuels used in generation. “When adding emissions from the building construction industry on top of operational emissions, the sector accounted for 38 per cent of total global energy-related CO2 emissions,” the emissions gap report stated. It noted however that pandemic recovery packages provided an opportunity to push deep building renovation and performance standards for newly constructed buildings and rapidly cut emissions. The Executive Director of the UNEP, Inger Andersen, said the rising emissions in the sector emphasised the urgency for a triple strategy to aggressively reduce energy demand in the built environment, decarbonise the power sector and implement materials strategies that reduced lifecycle carbon emissions. She said, “Green recovery packages can provide the spark that will get us moving rapidly in the right direction. “Moving the buildings and construction sector onto a low-carbon pathway will slow climate change and deliver strong economic recovery benefits, so it should be a clear priority for all governments.” To get on track to net-zero carbon building stock by 2050, the International Energy Agency estimated that direct building CO2 emissions needed, by 2030, to fall by 50 per cent and indirect building sector emissions by 60 per cent. It added that all actors across the buildings value chain needed to also increase decarbonisation actions and their impact by a factor of five. The emissions gap report found that a green pandemic recovery could cut up to 25 per cent off predicted 2030 greenhouse gas emissions and bring the world closer to meeting the 2°C goal of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. It noted that much more needed to be done to get to the 1.5°C goal and that governments could help by systematically including building decarbonisation measures into recovery packages, increasing renovation rates, investing in low-carbon buildings and increasing real estate value. The report stated, “Construction activities have dropped by 20 to 30 per cent in 2020 compared to 2019 as a result of the pandemic and around 10 per cent of overall jobs have been lost or are at risk across the building construction sector. “However, stimulus programmes for the building and construction sector can create jobs, boost economic activity, and activate local value chains.” The report also recommended that owners and businesses use science-based targets to guide actions and engage with stakeholders across the building design, construction, operation and users to develop partnerships and build capacity. It suggested that investors should reevaluate all real estate investment through an energy-efficiency and carbon reduction lens. UNEP added that other actors across the value chain should adopt circular economy concepts to reduce the demand for construction materials and lower embodied carbon and adopting nature-based solutions that enhanced building resilience. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com