running through the list gives one the impression of a national roll call of politically-exposed Nigerians converging for a national conference to reach a compromise on the way forward for the country. On the list are those who previously served as governors, ministers, federal legislators, helmsman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, National Security Adviser, police chiefs, among others. But it is not a national conference roll call; it is a collection of top influential persons in the polity banded together by similar allegations of using their entrusted positions to short-change the people, mismanage or divert collective wealth for their personal use. Trials involving such calibre of people never end quickly. As of January 15, 2018, during some experts’ roundtable discussion on lingering corruption cases, the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof Itse Sagay (SAN), put the figure of persons involved in such unending high profile corruption cases at 2,003. “As I speak, there are 2,003 of such cases still on. They travel from the High Court to the Supreme Court and back to the High Court over an interlocutory matter, such as jurisdiction, defective charge, or other excuses,” Sagay lamented. He described the defendants being prosecuted in those cases as “a genre of Nigerians who are neither convicted nor acquitted, who are neither guilty nor innocent.” “They remain suspended somewhere in new phase as a new species of citizens,” Sagay added. The cases of the likes of former governors Orji Kalu of Abia State, Gbenga Daniel of Ogun State, and Saminu Turaki of Jigawa State, perfectly fit into Sagay’s commentary. Kalu, 60, who was governor of Abia State between May 1999 and May 2007, has lived the last 13 years of his life standing trial on charges bordering on his alleged diversion of N7.1bn belonging to the state. The case journeyed to the Supreme Court twice in the 13 years period, yet it is just about starting again. The case took its first ride to the Supreme Court following the challenge of the competence of the charges by Kalu and his co-defendants. The Supreme Court in its March 2016 judgment affirmed the validity of the charges and directed the defendants to return to the trial court. The trial began at the Federal High Court in Lagos and successfully ended in Kalu’s and other co-defendants’ conviction. Kalu was sentenced to 12 years jail term. The ex-governor who was elected to the Senate in 2015 had started serving his sentence in prison when the matter took its second ride to the Supreme Court which in May 2020 nullified the entire trial and the conviction on the grounds that it was wrong and unconstitutional for Justice Mohammed Idris who was elevated to the Court of Appeal bench in the middle of the trial, to return to the Federal High Court, to conclude the case. The apex court also nullified Section 396(7) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015, which empowered the then President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa (retd.), to authorise Justice Idris to return to the Federal High Court to conclude the case, for being unconstitutional. The court also ordered a fresh trial of the case by a judge of the Federal High Court. Kalu and other defendants in the case are now waiting for re-arraignment in the New Year. A former governor of Jigawa State from 1999 to 2007, Saminu Turaki, was first arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission at the Federal High Court in Abuja on July 13, 2007 on 32 counts of misappropriating N36bn while in office. The case has been journeying between Abuja and Dutse, the Jigawa State capital, without any meaningful progress for 13 years. Former Governor Gbenga Daniel of Ogun State was arraigned by the EFCC on November 28, 2011 at the Ogun State High Court on 43 counts of corruption allegedly committed while in office. The case has been bogged down by delays, amendment to charges and interlocutory applications that have kept it in the docket almost forever since 2011. The ex-governor was accused in the case of diverting public funds into his personal accounts during his eight years as governor of the state. It is now his ninth year in the dock, with no end in sight, accounting for how he managed the resources of the state for eight years. Each of Orji, Daniel, and Turaki has had two successors since they exited office as governors. In age, the trial of former Governor Gabriel Suswam of Benue State, may not be as old as those of Kalu, Turaki or Daniel, but it has already lasted five years in court without commensurate progress. The case also depicts the confusion which often manifests in many high profile corruption cases. Within the five years of its existence, the case has taken a return trip between the courtrooms of two judges of the Federal High Court in Abuja. It has been to the Court of Appeal which ordered the case to be returned to the first judge who had voluntarily withdrawn from the case. Some of these high profile suspects have also learnt to live with the corruption allegations strung arround their neck without letting them stop their ambition for even higher or equally important positions which are ordinarily with high stakes of accountability. For instance, Governor Umar Fintiri of Adamawa State was standing trial for money laundering offences involving an aggregate sum of about N1.9bn when he won his governorship election in 2015. Similarly, Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, was standing trial before the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Abuja, for allegedly receiving gratification among other offences he was accused of committing as then Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, when he was also elected governor in 2019. Their trials have thus been placed on an indefinite suspension because of the immunity they now enjoy as governors. Kalu and Suswam also went on to win their elections to the Senate in 2019 while questions about how they used the resources of their states were still raging in court. Kalu even clinched a Senate leadership position. Other former governors who have been facing trial since 2015 and thereafter include, Ayo Fayose of Ekiti State, Murtala Nyako of Adamawa State, Sule Lamido of Jigawa State, Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu of Niger State, Ibrahim Shema of Katsina State, and Jonah Jang of Plateau State. The trials of a former Minister of State for the Federal Capital Territory, Jumoke Akinjide; former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode; former Minister of Inter-Governmental Affairs Tamuni Turaki (SAN); former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Bello Adoke (SAN), who served the previous Peoples Democratic Party-led government, are also at different stages since 2015. The EFCC also filed charges against a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke, who fled the country shortly after leaving office in 2015, but the trial has not been able to proceed due to the ex-minister’s absence since then. An anti-corruption organisation, Human and Environmental Development Agenda Resource Centre, recently released its fourth edition of a compendium of 100 high profile corruption cases detailing dramas and shenanigans that have stalled many of the cases, some even at investigation stages. A lawyer and immediate-past President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, Mr Malachy Ugwummadu, noted with concern that high profile corruption cases were not only being delayed, “in addition to that, the number of high-profile cases in which conviction was secured are now being reversed incrementally.” Like in the case of Kalu, the conviction of a PDP’s former spokesperson, Olisa Metuh,  for money laundering involving the sum of N400m he received from Dasuki as the NSA in 2014, was recently reversed by the Court of Appeal in Abuja. The Court of Appeal anchored its decision on the grounds that the trial judge, Justice Okon Abang at the Federal High Court in Abuja, was biased in his handling of the trial. Ugwummadu argued that this “points to very checkered and challenging crusade against corruption Nigeria”. The activist added, “It exposes the weakness of the system to consolidate the drive against corruption. “Yes, the argument could be posed that those reversals are achieved through legal means, but in the end it is shows how far the country can go in addressing corruption challenges in Nigeria.” The Administration of Criminal Justice Act which came into effect in 2015 and has since been adopted by at least 31 states of the federation, seems to be helpless in curbing delays when it comes to high profile criminal cases. Ugwummadu said ACJA made provisions for measures to curb delays in criminal trials including, day-to-day hearing of criminal trials, prohibition of stay of proceedings, limiting the number of adjournments to five times, and stopping long adjournment of criminal cases. But he regretted that “only recently that one of the most creative and dynamic provisions of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act which was what empowered trial judges who were elevated to the higher court to come back and conclude the trial as in when Justice Idris came back in Orji Kalu’s case, was reversed. “The return of Justice Idris to conclude the trial became a subject of appeal by the same party that initially sought the use of that same provision of the law. “There is no unanimity of purpose between the policy in the justice sector to deal a deadly blow to corruption.” The Executive Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership, Mr Debo Adeniran, said “ACJA has been rendered impotent by judges who compromise standards and their collaborators who do not want the war against corruption and other heinous crimes to be won”. “That is where there are still delays, interlocutory injunctions, there is still challenge of jurisdiction and so on,” he said. Prof. Yemi Akinseye-George (SAN), who is the President of the Centre for Socio-Legal Studies, an organisation involved in the birth of ACJA, confirmed that “lingering high profile cases are an indication that the ACJA is not working well”. He said aside the fact that “the innovative provisions are not being properly applied”, “the prosecutors and the courts are not well motivated.” “Judges are overloaded with work and are poorly remunerated. So also are the prosecutors,” he said. Pointing out the roles of defence lawyers in the problem, Akinseye-George added, “On the contrary, defence lawyers who represent high profile defendants are well oiled by their clients. “They are therefore in a stronger position than the prosecution and even the court.” The senior advocate said, “The powerful litigants are able to place all kinds of hurdles in the way of justice. “Some write petitions against hardworking and uncompromising judges who try to take charge of their courts rather than allowing frivolous adjournments.” This has played out in the trial of a former Chairman of the House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee on investigation into fuel subsidy regime in 2012, Mr. Farouk Lawan, who has been facing $500,000 bribery charges since 2012. Lawan was accused of accepting $500,000 as bribe for the removal of billionaire businessman, Mr. Femi Otedola’s company’s name, Zenon Petroleum and Gas Limited, from the list of firms indicted by the House committee for alleged fraud in the subsidy scheme. Three judges have so far handled the case at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, yet the matter is not ending soon. While the first judge got elevated to the Court of Appeal, the second was harassed out the case with petition by Lawan accusing her of bias. The Chief Judge of the FCT High Court, Justice Ishaq Bello, had withdrawn the case from the third judge, Justice Angela Otaluka, following another petition by Lawan accusing the new judge of bias. But the case was returned to Otaluka after a Court of Appeal’s judgment on the appeal lodged by the prosecution ordered the Chief Judge to reverse his decision. Olanrewaju Suraj, the Executive Chairman of HEDA Resource Centre, a body which recently issued its fourth edition of high profile corruption cases compendium, also blamed defence lawyers for the problem. He said, “The delay in prosecution of high profile Corruption cases in Nigeria is not accidental but a deliberate design by the suspects aided by senior legal practitioners and sometimes compromised judges.” To get a solution, Suraj said there must be “concerted efforts at deliberately challenging the international embarrassment through monitoring and reporting the activities of defence lawyers, supporting the agencies and the National Judicial Council enforcing reports of courts on performance of judges”. Ugwummadu suggested that there must be “unanimity of purpose among the arms of government on the fight against corruption”. Akinseye-George said trials must not necessarily end in a conviction, “but they must be concluded”. “It undermines the capacity of the courts to ensure accountability and that breeds impunity. “That also adversely affects the economy because investors are discouraged by delay or denial of justice,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   