the Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has asked the state governor, Kayode Fayemi, to run for the office of the president in the 2023 election. This came days after supporters of the National Leader of the APC, Bola Tinubu, set up a presidential campaign council for him ahead of the 2023 general elections. Paul Omotoso, the state caretaker chairman, said the party would force the governor into the presidential race because of his competence and loyalty to the ruling party, TheCable reported. Omotoso, who was represented by Ade Ajayi, the state publicity secretary, said this during a programme organised by Olusegun Osinkolu, a chieftain of the APC, for 1,000 members of the party in Ekiti north senatorial district, on Saturday. He said the time had come for the president to come from Ekiti, adding that “it would no longer play second fiddle in the south-west’s politics”. “On the 2023 presidency, the time has come for president to come from Ekiti. That is why we are pleading with you to support Governor Fayemi,” he said. “Though Governor Fayemi has never said he wants to contest, we will force him to plunge into the race, because of his competence, dedication, and loyalty to APC.” Omotoso said the party at the state, local government and ward levels would also reward Osinkolu for his contributions and loyalty despite all odds. “We are going to support him for the Senatorial race in 2023 because he has done well to boost the acceptability and popularity of our party in Ekiti despite that he was denied senatorial ticket twice. He has remained loyal, contented, and committed to APC,” he said. Responding, Osinkolu who was represented by Ayodeji Olorunfemi his personal assistant, said, “I will continue to be loyal to this party and give my best to uplift APC because the party is a party of the people.” In a bid to quell the rumour of an alleged presidential ambition, Fayemi earlier in the year said he was not working towards taking over from the President Major General Muhammadu Buhari. He had described as untrue, reports that he was working clandestinely towards building structures to prosecute his “rumoured presidential ambition in 2023” 