Sodiq Oyeleke and Olaide Oyelude The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is presently meeting with the students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, in Katsina State. The PUNCH had reported that hundreds of the schoolboys were kidnapped by suspected bandits on Friday, December 11. They were released on Thursday, December 17 in Zamfara State and taken to Katsina State on Friday morning amidst tight security. The President met the students at the Government House, Katsina. Buhari reiterated his determination to provide security for all in Nigeria. The president, who spoke in Hausa, congratulated the children for their safe return. He stressed that the government would continue to improve the nation’s security system. Governor Aminu Masari, in his address, told the President of the traumatic experiences the students had in the hands of their abductors. He said, “These students returned barefooted. None of them wore any sandals while they were being brought here.” Masari, nonetheless, thanked God, the president, and security agents for their (the students) safe return. Meanwhile, the debriefing of the students is expected to begin on Saturday. The Personal Assistant on New Media to the President, Bashir Ahmad, had tweeted that Buhari would be meeting with the students. Buhari had initially refused to visit the school where the students were kidnapped despite public outcry. But the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, at a press conference on Friday, said although the President did not visit Kankara, Katsina State where students were abducted, he coordinated rescue efforts from his hometown, Daura. READ ALSO: We are not willing to return to school —Katsina schoolboy When asked why the President failed to visit Kankara despite that he was in the state as of the time of the abduction, the minister said, “Yes, the president did not visit the town but he was busy coordinating the entire operation to ensure the safe return of the students within the fastest time possible.”