Sunday Aborisade Two civil rights groups, the Campaign for Democracy and Women Arise, have condemned the proposal before the Joint National Assembly Technical Committee on Electoral Act amendments seeking voting power for underage married girls. The leadership of the two groups, in separate interviews with our correspondent in Abuja, accused the federal lawmakers of encouraging child marriage with such a proposal. But the head of the technical panel, who is also the Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Independent National Electoral Commission, Senator Kabiru Gaya, has allayed the fears of Nigerians over the controversial proposal. Gaya, a former governor of Kano State, in an interview with our correspondent, said the proposal might not go beyond the technical panel. The Joint National Assembly Committee on INEC had last week presented the proposal before the technical committee, which has as members the INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu; Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN); lawmakers; and civil society groups. Reacting to the proposed amendment, the CD, through its National General Secretary, Rev. Ifeanyi Odili, alleged that the proposal was a ‘smart way’ of legalising child marriage. He said, “Although the Nigerian government has tried to stamp out child marriage with the enactment of the Child Rights Act of 2003, the practice of child marriage is still prevalent among the Muslim Hausa-Fulani in northern Nigeria and where Sharia law is in force. “While the Child Rights Act is important, it has not taken effect because each state in Nigeria has to enact the Act under its own state laws before it is enforceable. “This means that a social evil such as child marriage can be practised in a state that has yet to pass the Child Rights Act as a domestic law. “Majority of the states in the North which see it as an evil thing to do are reluctant to enact the Act. The right of the girl child in relation to marriage is not adequately protected, due to Part 1 Section 61 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. As a result, there should be steps to take to ensure the legal protection of a girl child against child marriage. “Since the practice of early betrothals are only common among the Muslim Hausa-Fulani, and the Child Rights Act has yet to be applied to all states, it will be best described as illegal, unreasonable to have underage voters in our electoral laws. “It cannot be inserted through the back door into an electoral law since it does not enjoy the full support of all the 36 states. “I am not daft, moronic and foolish not to see between the lines that the whole idea is aimed at perpetrating certain electoral fraud in the North in the coming presidential election. “It is indescribable and unreasonable to have a child who is emotionally unintelligent, who cannot form a genuine opinion of herself, in our election process. “This proposal is criminal, unreasonable, myopic and totally uncalled for, and should not be entertained in our electoral laws. “Any Senator or Reps who appends his or her signature to this nefarious bill or proposal, or whatever they call it, will receive some stripes from Nigerians in subsequent elections.” Also, the President of Women Arise, Joe Okei-Odumakin, wondered why the federal lawmakers were trying to worsen the issue of child marriage in the country with the controversial proposal. She said, “It is worrisome that at a time the world is improving upon every known framework and advocacy towards advancing girl child education, and, of course, an end to underage marriage, some politicians are making moves to further worsen the menace of child marriage by advancing such a terrible practice as a basis for selfish political gain. “The implication of allowing such an amendment to our electoral law simply means that more of our underage girls will be pushed into early marriages by politicians capitalising on pervasive poverty, particularly in the northern part of the country, just for selfish political advantages. “The kind of amendment required by our electoral laws at this time, is such that will improve the sanctity of the process, vis-à-vis the introduction of electronic voting system, punishments for electoral offenders and sundry issues. “I urge members of the National Assembly to throw this horrible proposal into the trash can, as it does not in anyway present us as a serious nation committed to the advancement of the future of the girl child.” Meanwhile, Gaya has explained that the process required to get the proposal into the Electoral Act will not be concluded before the first quarter of next year. He said, “We received lots of memoranda from people all over Nigeria when we conducted the public hearing. Different issues came up. We have the issue of Diaspora voting, the issue of women who are married even if they are not 18 years to be able to vote, and so on. “The position is very clear in the constitution. The constitution clearly states that an eligible voter, whether married or single, man or woman,  must be 18 years above. “Therefore, if a lady is not 18 years, she cannot vote because that is what the constitution stipulates. To change that provision, we would need to amend the constitution and when we want to do that, it will take a long process. “People are just overblowing (sic) it, but they should not worry themselves. We will go by the constitution of Nigeria which we swore to defend and uphold. “If the technical committee deems it fit to convince Nigerians on it, so be it, and if they don’t deem it fit, because of the conflict it has with the constitution, then they will explain to Nigerians. I am happy that Nigerians are reacting to issues like this.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   