The Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, says the institution has attracted over N8bn research grants in the past three years. Ogundipe disclosed this in an interview on the sidelines of a ceremony to hand over the vertical extension of the Faculty of Law of the institution, on Wednesday in Lagos. Alhaji Femi Okunnu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, and former Federal Commissioner for Works and Housing, donated N100m for the construction of the extension. ”In the past three years of this administration, I want to say that we have been able to attract research grants of over N8bn. “Already, this faculty of law has just been awarded an international grant of $45,000 and another one of $20,000. “That is the direction a university should go. The university is the light. We are supposed to lighten the society and that is the path we are taking in UNILAG, reaching out for grants,” he said. He noted that about 20 of his colleagues from the institution were currently being interviewed by the TETFund for research grants, adding that the grants were worth N20 million each. ”I am sure they will all get the N20 million each and if I should put these amount together, it will translate to a total of N400 million other research grants and this is going to go a long way in moving the university to an envious height. ”You must realise that our research now is demand-driven to assist the country achieve its much desired accelerated growth and that is what UNILAG is aiming at, as the university of first choice that it truly is,” Ogundipe stated. He added that the gesture from Okunnu was a life-changing one, worth emulating, noting that there was the need for more of such, from friends of the institution and other stakeholders. Ogundipe noted that there was also the need to support scholars who can compete locally and globally, just like the students. According to him, the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, is keen about the progress of the institution, adding that he is conscious of the fact that it is the country’s flagship university. Ogundipe said these gestures were all in line with one of his foremost visions for the institution, which is to “Pick a Project; Pick a Programme or Pick a person”. ”That is what we are saying; support us in terms of project, support us in terms of picking a programme and in terms of picking a person. “There are so many indigent students who cannot afford to pay their fees here. ”We learnt sometimes ago that some people sleep around the library and do you know that half of those who are staying there are students?. ”And 80 per cent of those students had more than 4.0 CGPA, but they could not afford to pay for accommodation. So we are calling on people to assist these indigent students,” he said. Prof. Adele Jinadu, who represented the donor, said the donation was meant to impact humanity. (NAN)