Samson Folarin Traditional rulers in the country have asked the youth to embrace dialogue in resolving their grievances with the system. The monarchs, under the aegis of the Nigerian Council of Traditional Rulers, spoke on Wednesday during a solidarity visit to the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, over the destruction that trailed the #EndSARS protest in the state. The Etsu of Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, who led the delegation to the State House, Marina, said the visit to Lagos — the epicentre of the protest — followed a decision reached on the November 3 meeting of the council jointly chaired by the Sultan of Sokoto and the Ooni of Ife. Abubakar said the council was disturbed by violent attacks on traditional institutions and the level of destruction visited on government and private-owned assets. He said, “We acknowledge that there are a lot of shortcomings and misgivings in the system, but misinformation and negative bias that accompanied the agitations fuelled the violence we witnessed. “The reason for the protest was very genuine. Unfortunately, the demonstration was overtaken by groups who didn’t believe in peace and unity of this country. As leaders, who believe in peace; we owe the people of this country a duty to ensure the lessons are taken by the political class.” Sanwo-Olu thanked the delegation for the visit, assuring them of his administration’s commitment to engage jobless youths in productive ventures. Other traditional rulers in the delegation were the Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom, Oba Obateru Akinruntan; Obi of Obi-Orodo Eze Imo, Eze Agunwa Ohiri; Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi; the paramount ruler of Nsit Ubium Okin Ibibio, Nteyin Solomon Etuk; Oba of Ikate Elegushi, Oba Saheed Elegushi; and the Director-General of the National Council of Traditional Rulers, Alhaji Kassim Yawa. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com