Leke Baiyewu, Abuja Legislative aides to members of the National Assembly have suspended plans to picket the federal parliament over unpaid salaries in 2019. It was reliably gathered that the Department of State Services intervened in the crisis between the aides and the National Assembly management, leading to suspension of the planned protests. The aides, under the auspices of the National Assembly Legislative Aides Forum, had written to President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Chairman, National Assembly Service Commission, Ahmed Amshi; and Clerk to the National Assembly, Amos Ojo, to protest against over unpaid salaries. In a letter dated December 13, 2020, the aides had also issued a 48-hour ultimatum, from Monday, to the management to clear the backlog of unpaid salaries, failing which they would disrupt activities at the National Assembly Complex. The letter, titled, ‘Continued Refusal to Pay Ninth Assembly Aides Salary Arrears,’ was copied to the Chairman, House Services (Senate and House); Sergeant-at-Arms, National Assembly; Divisional Police Officer, National Assembly Division; and Department of State Services, National Assembly Division. The letter read in part, “On the strength of the above, we are by this letter issuing a 48-hours notice of our intention to commence series of actions to drive home our demands for the payment of our 2019 salary arrears. Starting from Wednesday, 16th of December, 2020, we shall among other steps invoke Section 40 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) to embark on peaceful gathering around the precincts of the National Assembly Complex. [READ ALSO] Reopening of four borders: LCCI, experts raise smuggling alert as FG retains rice ban “This shall be followed with unrelenting social media campaign and petitions to relevant authorities to alert them to our situation. The legal option is our last resort. The only action that can stop these chains of events is the payment of our arrears within the timeline of this notice. We shall no longer take any verbal assurance from anyone. “While we are hopeful that the management will take full advantage of the two days window and render our actions unnecessary, let me assure you sir that we have the resolve and capabilities to sustain this campaign for as long as it is necessary till our demands are met.” A member of NASSLAF, who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity on Wednesday night, disclosed that the DSS had intervened in the matter. The source said, “Yes, it has been cancelled. There was an intervention from DSS.” In the letter, the aides had made reference to a resolution of the House, which on March 18, 2020, resolved to intervene in the crisis between legislative aides and the National Assembly, mandating the Committee on House Services to “investigate the irregularities in the payment of the salaries and allowances of legislative aides and report back to the House within two weeks for further legislative action.” A member, Mr Bamidele Salam, had moved a motion on the matter, titled, ‘Urgent Need to Investigate the Inconsistency in the Payment of Legislative Aides Salaries.’ Some aides to National Assembly members have been protesting against partial payment by the management. The PUNCH had reported on December 15, 2019, that Lawan and Gbajabiamila were on a collision course with the then Clerk to the National Assembly, Mr Mohammed Sani-Omolori, over non-payment of members’ workers. The aides had petitioned the presiding officers of the parliament to rein in on the Clerk to effect the workers’ payment. The aides had alleged that though their appointments were made between June and July 2019, they were paid from October. The then Director of Public Affairs, Office of the Clerk to the National Assembly, Yahaya Danzaria, had stated that the management could only defend payments made based on the appointment letters issued to the aides, adding that the NASC did not recognise the alleged unofficial resumption by the workers. The then General Secretary of NASSLAF, Michael Oladipo, had, however, dismissed the claims by the management.