Temiloluwa O’Peters The inaugural Chief Information Officer Awards has honored outstanding C-level tech professionals in Nigeria, who have delivered business value to their organisations and the industry at large, through the use of technology. The awards, an initiative of Edniesal Consulting Limited, an enterprise governance firm, celebrated individuals and organisations within selected sectors for significant parameters, and with high technology activities that contributed significantly to the Gross Domestic Product of the country. In her opening remarks, Chief Executive Officer, Edniesal Consulting, Abiola Laseinde, noted that the vitality of technology was emphasised during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Hence the need to celebrate those working behind the scenes to ensure the growth of technology,” she said. According to her, what differentiated a developed country from an emerging one was technology, innovation, creativity as well as good governance. She stated that it was essential to help the ecosystem of IT and expand the scope, which she noted the awards aimed to do. Laseinde said, “We are honouring organisations and executives driving IT innovation in Nigeria. “Our awardees will form a cloud of inspiring examples of how IT leadership as strategic business partners are reshaping the future. “We are convinced that the CIO Awards will further project the positive impact of technology and the tremendous benefits of disruptive thinking by these leaders.” Speaking on how the entries were reviewed, the Chairman of the CIO awards Jury and Executive Director, IT and Operations, Access Bank, Adeolu Bajomo, noted it had carefully selected individuals that had accomplished significant achievements in their respective industries. He added that the evaluation process was also overseen by PwC and other consultants, making sure the criteria was consistent. “We had to look through and scrutinise exactly what they have done in terms of achievement project delivery, and then based on specific criteria, scored them,” Bajomo said. Among the awardees were Chief Information Officer, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Okechukwu Iroegbu, Chief Technology Officer, Paystack, Ezra Olubi, CIO, British American Tobacco, Olakunle Ogedengbe, Head of IT, Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, Danladi Inuwa and others. The ceremony also featured the unveiling of The CIO Club Africa, a league of CIOs, CTOs, chief development officers, chief information security officers and heads of IT in different industries with vendors, government and other key stakeholders to exchange innovative ideas and grow collectively. Speaking about the rationale behind the CIO Club, Laseinde mentioned that the intent was to have honourees from the CIO Awards form a cloud of inspiring examples of how IT leadership alongside business partnerships were reshaping the future. “This we hope to achieve with the CIO Club Africa as a first of its kind and we hope to leverage the expertise and disruptive thinking of our diverse business leaders in the club,” she added Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 