John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party has cautioned the governing All Progressives Congress against attacking its governors and their states as a ploy to divert attention from the failures of the APC-led regime. The National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said this in a statement on Friday titled, ‘APC Is Bitter, Envious of Our Governors, Says PDP…Cautions Akpanudoedehe.’ Ologbondiyan alleged that the APC leaders were embittered over the sterling performance of PDP governors, which he said had further endeared Nigerians to the opposition party. The statement read in part, “Nigerians can see the frustration in the APC leadership, which has now resorted to vicious smear campaigns and media attacks on our governors and leaders, having failed in all their sneaky plots to lure them to look the way of the defunct APC. “It is therefore not strange to us that the Secretary of the APC’s illegal National Caretaker Committee, Senator James Akpanudoedehe, has been detailed as new APC spokesperson, to commence a coordinated attack on our governors.” According to the PDP, APC leaders should know that the party they are clinging to is nothing more than “a failed association masquerading as a political party; plagued with internal wrangling and illegal leadership,” which nobody wants to associate with. The PDP spokesman equally said the only legacy the APC would be remembered for when it levels the presidency in 2023 is that of “corruption, treasury looting, turning our nation into a failed state, instituting poverty and hardship, and supporting terrorists, bandits and kidnappers ravaging the people.” Ologbondiyan stated that governors elected on the PDP platform had over the years shown capacity through deliverables in projects and programmes that had direct impact on the lives of most Nigerians, in virtually every sphere of human endeavour. He said, “It is therefore imperative to state that our governors, by all ratings and ramifications, cannot be in the same class with non-performing APC governors. “In that regard, we counsel the APC Caretaker, as the new undertakers of the APC, to steer clear of our party and concentrate on their task of winding down the APC, which began with the collapse of their structures nationwide.” When contacted, the Secretary of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, said, “We wish all Nigerians a merry Christmas and a happy New Year.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 