Temiloluwa O’Peters The International Facility Management Association, Nigeria Chapter, has elected her 11th President, Segun Adebayo, as well as other council members to serve as the new executive council for the association up till 2022. A statement issued by the association said Adebayo, the former vice president and pioneer publicity secretary of the association was elected during the recent IFMA Annual General Meeting presided over by the outgoing president, Abimbola Adamolekun. According to IFMA, Adebayo is a graduate of banking and finance with an upper class grade from Kwara State Polytechnic. He has a master’s degree in corporate governance from Leeds Becket University, United Kingdom. He worked in various corporate and public roles and had garnered over 20 years of professional experience. The association stated that he had been appointed the Senior Special Assistant on Facility Management to the former Governor of Ogun State; Head, General Services of FBN Quest Merchant Bank Limited; Head of Administration Department, Kakawa Discount House, amongst other roles. IFMA Nigeria said, “Mr Adebayo is a Fellow, Institute of Administrative Management, UK; Member, Society for Corporate Governance Nigeria; Chartered Member, Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management and Facility Management Professional, International Facility Management Association, Houston. “He is an astute administrator, a resourceful and solution driven individual with strong flair for excellence.” In his acceptance speech, Adebayo said the election presented the opportunity not only to sustain the performance of the immediate past council but to also creatively improve upon their achievements. He pledged to make the association the leading voice in the facility management industry and a force to reckon with by all stakeholders. The president said, “It is with great sense of humility and commitment that I accept the responsibility to serve as the president of our noble association. “Our priorities for this administration shall be service oriented and also result driven. We will enhance and improve the association’s knowledge base through innovation and technology with special attention to increase membership participation, engagement and growth.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 