Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan THE Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba AbdulGaniyu Salaudeen, has invited residents of his community to an urgent meeting on the way forward following the closure of banks in the town due to the absence of policemen to protect the financial institutions there. Recall that police stations in Iseyin were looted and burnt down during the #EndSARS protests in October, with hoodlums carting away police arms and ammunition. But a resident of the town, who identified himself, Sodiq , told our correspondent that Operation Burst had been protecting the banks since after the violence that trailed the October #EndSARS protests. Sodiq said men of Operation Burst however withdrew from protecting the banks since Monday, saying that was not part of their mandate. He said, “I cannot blame the banks officials because armed robbers are aware that the police have not resumed and Operation Burst has withdrawn its men from the banks. They are vulnerable to attacks and closing down their operations is a good decision.” The Aseyin of Iseyin, when contacted by our correspondent, confirmed the development. The monarch said, “Yes, banks have closed. We have been traveling to Ibadan, Oyo and other places to use banks. “We are living in fear now. But to find a way forward, I have invited the entire community to a meeting tomorrow.” The Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State Mr Olugbenga Fadeyi, stakeholders would need to help rebuild some of the properties destroyed for police to resume work in the town. The PPRO said, “During the infamous #EndSARS protests,  Iseyin Division was among the police stations that were burnt down by disgruntled elements under the guise of protests, while police equipments, exhibits were massively looted and police staff quarters vandalised. “Two police armored personnel carriers  and patrol vehicles were burnt down. There is no enabling environment for the police to work there. “Hence, there is need for all stakeholders and community leaders to come together to built a befitting station and provide adequate amenities  for the police in Iseyin to enable the police carry out  their constitutional responsibilities.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 