A ‘ritual’ that was meant to make 17-year-old Adebisi ‘remain focused in life’ has left her with pains she will live to remember. Adebisi (pseudonym), a smart, cheerful, and ambitious young girl from Gbongan, a town in Osun State, said she suffers pain after she had a clitoridectomy — excision of the clitoris — in the course of her circumcision. Recounting her experience to our correspondent, Adebisi said she was circumcised when she was six years old. “My dad and my mum were separated when I was six year sold and my mum told me that there was a ritual I must go through to be able to stay focused in life. “I didn’t know what she meant by ritual — not until she took me to Olola’s house,” says Adebisi. Olola is a traditional circumciser. Female Genital Mutilation Female Genital Mutilation is a term that many know can cause severe bleeding and problems with urinating, and, later, complications in childbirth and increased risk of newborn deaths for females who have been subjected to it. According to the 2018 Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey, female circumcision occurs mostly during infancy; and 86 percent of women age 15-49 were circumcised at less than age five in Nigeria. The Chief Nursing Officer at the State Hospital, Asubiaro, Osogbo, Mrs. Adenike Mercy Makinde, told PUNCH HealthWise that in her years of practice as a nurse, she has seen a lot of complications associated with FGM among girls and women who had undergone the procedure. ‘The day I was cut’ Adebisi was taken to a house in the town, where she was ordered to take off her pants. Then, a man and a woman, assumed to be Olola’s apprentices, joined Olola in the darkroom, held her down on the mat with her arms and legs secured, while Olola did the cutting. “There was no anaesthetic. I was just confused. The man used razor blade to cut my genital,” she said. “A man and a woman held me to the ground and I was afraid. The next thing I saw was a razor blade with which Olola cut through my genital. I cried because of the great pain I felt, my cloth was soaked with blood. “I called my mum for rescue but she was far away until the man was through. She made me rest a bit at Olola’s house before we went home. “Nothing was used to clean me up; it was my mum that used her cloth to clean the blood before we went home.” If Adebisi thought the worst was over, her ordeals were just beginning. “When we got home, I slept off; but when I woke up, I saw that she had covered my wound with cotton wool laced with a substance,” she recalled. A pain that won’t go away Eleven years after the procedure, Adebisi says she still feels the pain. “I still feel the pain occasionally,” she said. Adebisi didn’t know what the procedure meant until she attended an adolescent boot camp in 2016. “During the programme, we were told about FGM and I confided in one older lady that my private part does not look like the normal one they showed us and I was counselled about FGM. The young girl who has just completed her secondary school education said she wants to become a lawyer to be able to stand strong against FGM. “Life has not been the same since I was cut. Whenever I remember that day, I feel so sad,” she said. Preventing promiscuity Our correspondent, who visited some communities in Osun State, learnt that female children are made to undergo the procedure because of religious and cultural beliefs, especially in the belief that it will the curb promiscuity, preserve chastity, and generally modify socio-sexual attitudes. Bizarrely enough, FGM practitioners say other reasons for the procedure are to increase a female child’s opportunity to get a suitor as well as to ensure that she gives birth vaginally. However, the World Health Organisation says FGM has no health benefits whatsoever. “It involves removing and damaging healthy and normal female genital tissue and interferes with the natural functions of girls’ and women’s bodies. “Generally speaking, risks of FGM increase with severity and corresponds to the amount of tissue damage, although all forms of FGM are associated with increased health risks,” WHO says. ‘Stop cutting us’ Ifeoluwa (again, not real name) from Owode community in Boripe Local Government Area of Osun State, said she was cut but couldn’t remember when the procedure was carried out on her. The 13-year-old girl in Primary Five said she experiences pain whenever she urinates. “Whenever I want to urinate, I can see the signs. It is painful. I want you to tell them not to be cutting the child,” she said. Tribal marks and FGM Findings showed that in the past, once tribal marks were inscribed on a girl’s cheeks, she would also be circumcised. Though the community leaders who spoke with our correspondent claimed the practice is no longer in existence, the tribal marks,they say, are for identification of a person’s tribe or lineage. Meanwhile, talking about the unorthodox procedures that attend female circumcision, the community leaders say after an FGM procedure, snail slime is smeared on the wound“to reduce the pain.” To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 