Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan A soldier, who was part of the rescue team trailing gunmen, who kidnapped a Lebanese and his aide in Ibadan has been found dead in the hideout of the kidnappers. An army lieutenant was also  shot and injured by the hoodlums when the Operation Burst was called upon to rescue the abducted persons on Saturday. The Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State Mr Olugbenga Fadeyi, who disclosed this in a statement on Sunday night said  the corpse of a soldier was found in the bush. He  also said the corpse of a civilian was also discovered at the same place without disclosing the identity of the civilian.  Apart from that, the PPRO said a member of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps was also shot and injured. The PPRO who confirmed to our correspondent on the telephone that the kidnapped victim is a Lebanese said foreign nationals did not always disclose their movement to the police to give them proper travel advice. The statement read, “On 12/12/2020 at about 17:23 hours, one Hassan Mills ‘m’ of Panorama Farm Mekun, Oke Alaro area of Ibadan was abducted at the entrance of his farm by gunmen, who shot severally before taking him away into the forest. In a swift response, the DPO Oke Alaro, combed the forest with a view to rescue the abductor from his captors and also arrest the culprits. READ ALSO: Police working to free Indians kidnapped on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway –Oyo PPRO “Consequent upon this, a team of Operation  Burst which was invited by the company arrived the area and proceeded to the forest. Not too long, one Army Lieutenant sustained gunshot injury on his right lap, and immediately taking to the hospital while the personal assistant to the abducted man, who was also abducted alongside his boss escaped during the exchange of gunfire. “On 13/12/2020, two corpses of one soldier and a civilian were discovered in the forest while a civil defence personnel also sustained gunshot injury.  It is worthy of note that movement of these foreign nationals most of the time are not known to the police authority in the state to enable professional advice to be given appropriately.”