Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye, said on Friday, that those  exploiting COVID-19 emergencies would be investigated and prosecuted by the commission. Owasanoye spoke at an event in Abuja where participants called for more transparency in the management of funds and resources during the pandemic era. The event with the theme, ‘Fighting money laundering in the COVID-19 era: Challenged and oppprtunities’ was organised by the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre in collaboration with the United Nations on Drugs and Crime and the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption. Owasanoye, who was represented by an ICPC official, Mr Michael Agboro, said the commission would continue to beam its searchlight on COVID-19 response activities and other sectors to ensure probity, transparency, accountability and integrity. “The commission will not hesitate to investigate and prosecute any person who takes advantage of the emergency and exigency surrounding COVID-19 to commit acts of corruption and other related offences, money laundering and economic sabotage through illicit financial flows,” he added. Also speaking, the Executive Director of CISLAC, Auwal Musa, said despite the government commitment to judicious disbursement of funds and transparency in managing the economic fallouts of the pandemic, “realities seem different.” The Executive Secretary of PACAC, Prof Sadiq Radda, who likened corruption to a cancer that was so difficult to defeat, said there was the need to replicate the anti-corruption efforts of the Federal Government at the state and local government levels. The Chair of Transparency International, Delia Ferreira-Rubino, who joined the meeting virtually, said accountability measures must be put in place in the pandemic era. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  