Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja A total of 138 applications with a cumulative value of N14.6bn have been submitted by miners to the Federal Government for mining projects in various parts of the country. It was learnt on Tuesday that the N14.6bn applications were submitted based on the N5bn Nigerian Artisanal and Small-Scale Miners Financing Support Fund, which was established in 2017 by the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment in collaboration with Bank of Industry. The FMITI made available N2.5bn, while the BOI matched it with another N2.5bn counterpart funding, making a total of N5bn. The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, disclosed this at a workshop in Abuja that focused on how best to access the support fund for Artisanal and Small Scale Miners. Adegbite also said his ministry had registered about 1,495 mining cooperatives comprising about 1,400 gold miners, as well as 368 mineral buying centres. He said, “Out of the 1,495 registered mining cooperatives, 140 are gold mining cooperatives. The North-West has the highest number of registered cooperatives, while the South-East has the least.” On applications for the support fund, the minister said, “As at September 30, 2020, a total of 138 applications totalling N14.59bn was received by the fund and were at various stages of processing. “So far 13 loan applications totalling N1.08bn have been approved under the fund. Out of this, the sum of N311m has been disbursed as at September 30, 2020.” Adegbite noted that this disbursement was low when compared to the total application, largely because applicants failed to meet the necessary but stringent requirements stipulated by the bank. He, however, stated that the government was working assiduously to ensure that the difficulties inherent in accessing the funds were removed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      