Nike Popoola Insurance companies have written a letter to the National Insurance Commission to explain its stand on the first phase of the industry’s recapitalisation expected to end on December 31. In its recapitalisation requirements, NAICOM mandated that 50 per cent of the minimum paid-up capital for insurance and 60 per cent for reinsurance must be met by 31 December 2020. NAICOM stated that insurance companies that failed to satisfy the required minimum paid-up capital by December 31, 2020 may be restricted on the scope of business they would transact. On December 9, the House of Representatives asked NAICOM to suspend the December 31, 2020 deadline set for operators in the insurance industry to recapitalise. An operator who spoke to our correspondent said a letter was written through the Nigerian Insurers Association and acknowledged by the commission. In the letter, it said, the insurers urged the commission to clarify if the recapitalisation would take place in view of the pending court orders and the advice by the lawmakers that the December deadline should be suspended. He however said that the commission was yet to respond to its actions on the recapitalisation. The National Assembly had earlier written a letter to NAICOM on the need to suspend the recapitalisation in the sector. The letter titled ‘Need to suspend the proposed recapitalisation of insurance companies, insurance intermediaries and other players in the insurance sector in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic recession (HR.77/12/2020) was signed by the Clerk to the National Assembly, Ojo O. A. Also, a Federal High Court in Abuja in Suit No FHC/ABJ/CS/835/2020 between Incorporated Standard Shareholders Association vs NAICOM, had adjourned the recapitalisation case before it to 8th February. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  