Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt A High Court sitting in Port Harcourt has ordered the re-arrest of a former manager of a guesthouse in the Rivers State capital, Kirian Ejike, over alleged N6.8m fraud. Ejike had taken the police, director of the guesthouse and seven others to court alleging abuse of his fundamental human rights. Kirian asked the court to restrain the police from inviting, investigating and arresting him, even as he demanded N50m in damages. Delivering the judgment, Justice Henry Aprioku ruled that the court would not obstruct justice and ordered that the applicant be re-arrested, investigated and if found culpable, should be arraigned to face the law. Justice Aprioku also ruled that the court did not have powers to restrain the police since they were still investigating the matter and awarded a cost of N100,000 against the applicant to be paid to all nine respondents in the matter. Speaking to journalists outside the courtroom, counsel for the defendants, Owalake Godferry, expressed happiness over the judgment. He said, “This is a case where the applicant is alleged to have defrauded the hotel, where he is a manager. While the police were carrying out their investigation, he rushed to court alleging abuse of his fundamental human rights. “We are glad today that the judge, in his considered judgment, dismissed his application. The implication been that he has to go back and face his case and justice is seen to have been done On his part, counsel for the applicant, Amadi Chiwenreke, said he would liaise with his client to explore possible ways of going to an appellate court. “The court has spoken. Who are we to say otherwise? The only thing we have to do is that we will consult with our client and we can now go upstairs (a higher court),” Chiwenreke stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 