John Alechenu, Abuja The long awaited National Executive Committee meeting of the All Progressives Congress is holding on schedule today (Tuesday) as party leaders flay a suit filed by a member of the dissolved Adams Oshimohole-led National Working Committee, Hilliard Eta. Eta, who was the APC National Vice Chairman (South South), filed a suit challenging the decision of the National Executive Committee meeting of June 25, which dissolved the NWC. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of APC, Yekini Nabena, who spoke for the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, told The PUNCH, that it had not received any court process stopping Tuesday’s meeting. Nabena said, “The NEC meeting is going ahead, the necessary arrangements are in place and there is no court judgment or order stopping the meeting.” The PUNCH gathered in Abuja, on Monday, that the Buni-led committee will be presenting its request for extension of time to NEC for approval. Also, on its list will be a request for NEC’s approval for the nationwide membership registration/revalidation exercise which has already received the support of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), state governors and other stakeholders. A member of the party’s caucus, who confided in The PUNCH, said, “The NEC is going ahead as planned, there’s nothing stopping us. The Attorney General of the Federation who is also a senior party member, is not aware of any court judgment or ruling stopping our meeting. So, we are good to go. “The meeting is largely to provide an opportunity for the caretaker committee to seek for approval for so many things: the registration, the ward, local government and state congresses and the setting up of committees that will carry out these functions as well as the time table for these activities. “Of course, the caretaker chairman will present a formal update of what his committee has been up to and then seek approval for their request for an extension of time, you know their time expires in about two weeks, they will be seeking for an extension for probably another six months. After which, they will present a time table for NEC to approve also for the convention. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  