John Alechenu, Abuja The National Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress has charged party members in River State to find a way to work together in the interest of the party. This was contained in a letter titled, “Purported suspension and expulsion of members of the party in Rivers State,” signed by the Head, Legal Services of the APC, Dare Oketade, and addressed to the state APC caretaker committee chairman, Isaac Ogobula. The letter was sighted on Thursday. Oketade expressed the party’s concerns over the spate of suspensions and counter suspensions within the Rivers State Chapter of our Party. He said he was under instructions from the Caretaker APC National Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni, to “remind you of your core mandate as the State Caretaker Committee Chairman in Rivers State, which is to reconcile all persons and accommodate all shades of interests no matter how variant they may be.” The letter further read, “The National Secretariat of the Party has reviewed the purported suspension of several members of the Party in Rivers State as having not been in accordance with the procedures as set out by the Constitution of our Party views. “Therefore the purported suspension of several Party members including Senator Magnus Abe, who is a revered leader of the Party in Rivers State is not in accordance with the provisions of the Party’s Constitution and a distraction on the National leadership of the Party, which is focused on the reconciliation of members of the Party and rebuilding of the Party from bottom up. “It is upon my further instruction to advise that all media brickbats with relation to the suspensions and counter suspensions be suspended forthwith and efforts be taken to assist the South-South Reconciliation Committee headed by Chief John Odigie- Oyegun in its efforts to reconcile all warring members of the Party in Rivers State.” Recall, factions of the party loyal to the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Ameachi and Senator Magnus Abe have been at loggerheads over the control of the party structure in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 