Friday Olokor and Tyopuusu Justin The Tiv indigenes in the United States of America on Sunday alleged that 30 of their villages had been taken over and renamed by the Jukun. According to them, the renaming of Tiv communities and towns signalled the intent of the Jukun to uproot Tiv people from their legitimate ancestral land. The indigenes, under the aegis of Mutual Union of Tiv in America, bared their minds in a statement by its President, Prof. Joseph Zume and General Secretary, Simon Kusugh. MUTA called on the Federal government to lead efforts to resolve the displacement of Tiv people in Taraba State and also ensure that the threat to their citizenship rights was eliminated. The statement by MUTA reads partly, “What makes the current crisis deserving of special attention is that the Jukun have not only violently overran about 30 Tiv villages and towns, but they have also renamed them to obliterate their Tiv histories. “To provide just a few examples, the Jukun have captured and renamed the following towns and villages: In Takum LGA, Peva has been renamed Chanchanji and Tse-Ahmadu renamed Kufai Ahmadu. In Wukari LGA, Tse-Ayu has been renamed Tsokundi and Toho Abanyon renamed Adikyan. “The renaming of Tiv towns was carried out by the state government and when attacks on Tiv communities began, the state government refused to provide places of safety for the victims. We demand that the changes to the names of Tiv towns and villages in Taraba be reverted to their original names.” Several calls and text messages to Bala Dan Abu, the spokesperson for the Taraba State governor, Ishaku Darius, were neither picked not replied to. But in his reaction, the President Jukun Development Association, Chief Aboki Danjuma, said, “The governor set up a commission of inquiry into crisis but the Tiv people boycotted the commission.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 