How did you find yourself in the business of make-up? My interest in make-up came to me as a surprise. I was not a make-up lover until I moved to the hostel while in school. Watching other girls apply make-up aroused my interest in it in my second year in the university and in my third year, I started buying make-up and watching make-up tutorials on social media. Some of my roommates allowed me to use their faces for practice and that made it easier for me to learn faster. What training is needed to become a make-up artist? The first education needed to become a make-up artist is interest and passion. If one does not have any of these, one would never grow in that line of business. Initially, it may seem like one is not earning enough from the business and one may want to give up, but the interest and passion are what would keep one going. How long have you been in the business? I started in 2015 but I monetised it in 2017. So far, it has been an awesome experience. I love what I do and it makes me really happy doing what I love the most. What are some of the challenges you face in the course of doing your job? Every job comes with its peculiar set of challenges. For me, having to source for clients could be very hard. Irregular supply of electricity is another factor which makes one spend more on petroleum. Also, clients try to cut prices that have been fixed. Many of them fail to realise that make-up products are really expensive. What are some of the risks you face while working? One of the major risks I face as a make-up artist is meeting strange people and having to work with them in their comfort zone, considering how unsafe Nigeria is. Is the business profitable? Make-up is a promising business if one is a good manager. Sometimes, I make more money than the average ‘9-5’ workers and sometimes, I am not. Business has its highs and lows. Some people think make-up artists make easy money without stress but that is not true. Being a make-up artist is not as easy as it seems. One has to be very calculative because one would meet different faces and skin tones, yet one has to always do a clean job. Also, some clients are difficult to please, so one has to be patient while dealing with them. A lot of people are getting into this line of business. Are you afraid it would increase your competition? Yes, the competition is very tough but I believe the sky is wide enough for everyone to flourish. I give my work my best and leave the rest to God. I have my loyal clients, just as other people have theirs. What is your educational qualification? I am a graduate of Botany from the University of Lagos. Do you have any corporate work experience? Going into this line of business was a choice for me. Upon graduation, I worked with a firm but resigned after a year because I did not feel fulfilled. It felt like doing the same thing every day and found it boring. I like being creative and my job as a make-up artist allows me to do that. Sometimes, I have to create about eight looks on different faces with different structures. That is what I call creativity. What is your advice for young make-up artists out there? My advice for anyone who chooses this career path is to keep practicing. You may get tired but don’t stop. Keep learning and you would eventually win. What are some of the common mistakes make-up artists should avoid? Older make-up artists should relate better with the younger ones, and learn to be active mentors. I would also want the make-up industry to feel like a home for all and not a place where the younger ones feel like they would not amount to anything. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 