John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party has berated the ruling All Progressives Congress over its alleged conspiracy of silence in the face of the misrule of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). It also accused the ruling party of being the architect of the regime’s failures. This was contained in a statement titled: “Killings: PDP Calls Out APC Over Conspiracy of Silence…Says APC Is Architect of Buhari’s Misrule,” signed by the PDP spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, on Tuesday. The opposition party said the All Progressives Congress has again displayed its insensitivity and anti-people stance by “encouraging President Muhammadu Buhari to visit his cattle ranch instead of Kankara, in his home Katsina state, were 600 students where abducted by suspected terrorists.” The PDP said by failing to impress it on President Buhari to cut short his unnecessary holiday and make efforts to rescue the abducted students, the APC has again shown that it is a party of ‘political bandits’, which has no iota of concern for the wellbeing of Nigerians. The statement added, “Indeed, the preference for the welfare of Mr. President’s cattle over the safety of our young students, who are now languishing in their abductors’ den, foregrounds APC’s disdain for Nigerians, for which it should never be entrusted with governance at any level in future. “Our party and, indeed, discerning Nigerians are not surprised that the APC, as a party, has not forcefully condemned the kidnapping of the students even as it has not raised any strong voice against the recent gruesome killing of 43 farmers in Borno state by terrorists. “Rather, the APC has tacitly supported the insensitive comment by the Buhari Presidency, which blamed the slain farmers instead of taking steps to apprehend the assailants. “Our party charges the APC to come clean on this manifest conspiracy of silence as such silence, in the face of horrific killing and kidnapping of innocent Nigerians, only points to the complicity of its leaders.”