Joseph Olaoluwa Emirates Airlines has welcomed a new aircraft, the Airbus A380 to its 2020 fleet. According to a statement by the airline emailed to our correspondent, the aircraft landed in Dubai on Saturday. The statement titled ‘Biofuel powered and emissions reduction A380s from Emirates’ explained that the A380 was powered by a blend of jet fuel and Sustainable Aviation Fuel. Sustainable Aviation Fuel is a clean substitute for fossil jet fuels. Rather than being refined from petroleum, it is produced from renewable feedstock, the airline explained. Emirates is scheduled to receive two more A380 aircraft later this month, one of which will feature its long-awaited signature premium economy product. President of Emirates Airline, Tim Clark, said, “The A380 has been a success story for Emirates, and this is reflected in the strong customer interest wherever we have deployed the aircraft over the years. “The A380 has helped us efficiently serve customer demand at slot constrained airports and also on trunk routes, supporting our long-haul hub operations. “Importantly, with the space and technology on this aircraft, we’ve been able to introduce new concepts onboard that have transformed the flying experience for the better. “The A380 will remain our flagship for the next decade, and we will deploy it on more routes as travel demand returns.” The aircraft is also demonstrating its versatility by being utilised as a ‘mini-freighter’ on select cargo charter operations to transport urgently required cargo across the Emirates network, the company said. Clark said, “Sustainability remains very much on our agenda at Emirates. We are watching developments in sustainable aviation fuel very closely, and we look forward to a time when it can be produced at scale, and in a cost-competitive manner.” He added that the delivery of the aircraft was partially powered by sustainable aviation fuel. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   