Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe and Umar Muhammed Emeritus Chairman of Punch Newspapers, Chief Ajibola Ogunshola; and the Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, have expressed sadness over the death of the publisher of the Leadership Newspaper, Sam Nda-Isaiah. Nda-Isaiah died in Abuja on Friday at 58 years. Ogunshola, who described the late publisher as a reliable and forthright person, condoled with his wife, boards and staff of Leadership Group and other companies “he owned or co-owned.” The former chairman in a statement on Sunday said, “I am shocked and saddened to learn of the death of Sam Nda-Isaiah, the chairman of Leadership Group at the early age of 58. My relationship with him particularly developed and was largely confined to the era when I was the president of Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria between 2007 and 2011 and while he was a member of its governing council. “Although he held strong beliefs on practically any matter that one had to discuss with him and stated them with characteristic vehemence, I found him quite open to alternative arguments when they have merit. He would, with a smile, say, ‘Chief, that’s true.’ but what I admired most in him was his forthrightness, consistency and reliability as a member of that council. “We communicated often and he would call me from some distant part of the world, even when you expected him to be sleeping. His early wealth, elevated newspaper platform and high political contacts, especially in the states of the North, and his sheer rugged persona emboldened him to say or write whatever he wanted to write or say. “I even thought he was older than he was. A strong ally and defender of then presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, he once told me that candidate Buhari was, in private group conversations, a witty and humorous man. “My heart goes to his wife and children, the boards and staff of Leadership Group and the other companies which he owned or co-owned.” Meanwhile, Sule, also in a statement on Sunday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Ibrahim Addra, mourned the death of Nda-Isaiah. The statement reads partly, “His incisive and poignant contributions to national discourse will be greatly missed. “He was resolute, a man of conviction and a dependable ally.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 