John Alechenu, Abuja The former Senator representing Adamawa South, Grace Bent, has asked female members of the Peoples Democratic Party, to demand nothing less than the Vice-Presidential slot in 2023. She said this in her remarks at the PDP Women’s Stakeholders Consultative Meeting, held with the support of the International Republican Institute, at the PDP National Secretariat, Wadata Plaza, Abuja, on Monday. The former federal lawmaker expressed disappointment that despite the 35 per cent affirmation action which Nigeria was a signatory to, women who constitute 50 per cent of the entire population, were still excluded from the decision-making process. Bent said, “We are saying that in 2023, if our political party does not present a female as vice presidential candidate, we are not going to support them. “So, set the ball rolling, all female stakeholders, women leaders, tell the party, give us female vice president otherwise, we will all sit home, we shall not vote.” She revealed her personal ordeal while working with other women to champion the cause of women. Bent said, “A lone voice is always a problem and this has always been the problem year-in, year-out.  We attempted to push for a deputy national chairman in the person of Hajiya Ina Chiroma and I realised that for a woman to be successful in politics, you must learn how to fight, you must have an aggressive spirit because no one gives it to you on a platter of gold. “I have gone to the field a couple of times and with the experience I can come out to tell Nigerian women that the men have always treated us like second class citizens which we are not. If you want to succeed, you must pay the price.” Earlier, in her address, the National Woman Leader, Hajiya Mariya Waziri, said, “Some of our notable achievements are the- Approval of 35 per cent women’s inclusion into party offices at all levels, the successful mobilization of voters, especially female voters, towards the election of His Excellency, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State.” A former PDP Leader of the House of Representatives, Mulikat Areola-Akande, who also spoke during the event, said, “The men know what is right but they keep pushing us aside. We women know what is right but we don’t do it. I think with 2023, we need to get it right. We cannot get it right if we continue to pull ourselves down.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com       