James Abraham Controversy on Saturday trailed the burial rites of a former Minister of Defence, General Domkat Bali, who died on December 4, 2020. Kinsmen of the late minister led by the chairmen of Langtang North and Lantang South local government areas of Plateau state Dr. Joshua Laven and Nimchak Rims, respectively had at a press conference accused the military of exclusion in the burial rites of the late minister. They warned that anarchy was looming in the land should the military go  ahead with the burial arrangements without involving the joint traditional council in the two council areas, insisting that he must be buried in line with the tradition as the Ponzhi Tarok. But a statement on Saturday by five kingmakers to the throne of Ponzhi Tarok disowned the late minister as the Ponzhi Tarok and insisted that he never occupied the stool while he was alive. Those who signed the statement included Ponzhi Tumwat, Nicholas Musa; Ponzhi Dambar, Nanman Bale and Ponzhi Mbin, Binfat Zitta. The kingmakers said, “While we mourn the late Gen Bali, let us state for the record that Gen Bali was never installed at any time as Ponzhi Tarok. The December 2010 election of Ponzhi Tarok was marred with several controversies and needless intuitions. “As kingmakers, some of us were deprived of the opportunity to participate in the exercise; and truly, there was no election that day. Government, however, went ahead to appoint Gen Bali who was one of the contestants into the office. “That fiat by government triggered various litigations in courts. Some of the cases are still ongoing and there are subsisting judgments that stopped Gen Bali from performing the role of Ponzhi Tarok or presenting himself for installation as Ponzhi Tarok. “While these cases were yet in court, Gen Bali resigned from the position and his resignation was duly acknowledged by the government.” The kingmakers appealed to the people to desist from politicising the death of the late minister and allow his burial to take place as announced by the military authorities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   