Our Correspondents There was a low turnout of voters in eight of the 11 states where the Independent National Electoral Commission held bye-elections on Saturday. States, where the low turnout of voters was witnessed, were Lagos, Imo, Katsina, Borno, Plateau, Bayelsa, Kogi, and Cross River. However, a significant number of voters exercised their civic duty in the states of Zamfara, Enugu, and Bauchi. Findings by our correspondents indicated that voter apathy, card reader failure, and militarisation of polling units were parts of factors responsible for the poor turnout in the eight affected states. On the other hand, investigations revealed that vote-buying, among other factors, was responsible for the high turnout of voters in the other three states. INEC had earlier scheduled to hold bye-elections for some federal and state legislative houses in 11 states across 36 local government areas in October but postponed them due to #EndSARS protests which rocked the country. Following the calm that ensued, the commission on Saturday held the bye-elections in which it deployed 36,223 staff members for the exercise. The bye-elections were for Bayelsa Central Senatorial District; Bayelsa West Senatorial District; Nganzai and Bayo constituencies in Borno State; Cross River North Senatorial District; and Obudu Constituency in Cross River. Others were Imo North Senatorial District; Lagos East Senatorial District; Kosofe Constituency II in Lagos State; Plateau South Senatorial District; Bakura Constituency in Zamfara; and Ibaji Constituency in Kogi. INEC data showed that a total of 4,215,523 registered voters were eligible to participate in the bye-elections held in 36 local government areas, 413 registration areas, 7,702 polling units and 69,921 voting points. However, there was a low voter turnout in Lagos, Imo, Katsina, Borno, Plateau, Bayelsa, Kogi, and Cross River due to voter apathy and militarisation of polling units. For instance, Lagos East Senatorial District witnessed less than 10 per cent of the total number of voters accredited at the polling units. During the monitoring of the exercise on Saturday, it was observed that at Polling Unit 007, Ward 5, situated on Ogunlana Street, Ketu Alapere, Kosofe Local Government Area, only 51 of 594 registered voters exercised their franchise. In the House of Assembly bye-election in the unit, the All Progressives Congress got 43 votes while the Peoples Democratic Party had three. Four votes were void. For the senatorial bye-election in the unit, APC polled 46 votes, PDP secured three, while two votes were void. At polling unit 009 situated on Alhaji Adebayo Street in the same ward, only 40 of the 807 registered voters cast their votes. In the senatorial bye-election in the unit, APC polled 27 votes, PDP got seven, while one vote was void. At Polling Unit 001 in Ward 5 situated on Agboyi Ketu Road, Ketu Alapere, only 136 of 2,118 registered voters exercised their franchise. READ ALSO: US university denies offering Ganduje appointment The Chairman, Agboyi-Ketu Local Council Development Area, Mr Dele Oshinowo, commended the peaceful conduct by voters, especially the youths. The situation was the same in some polling units observed in Ikorodu, the hometown of the candidates of the PDP and the APC on Saturday. One of our correspondents observed that there was no queue in most of the polling units. At polling units 007, 008, 013 and 014, Ward A in Ikorodu, the voter turnout was poor as of 11am. Mr Ahmed Olalekan, a voter at PU007, Isele Ward 1, Ayangburen Isikalu Street Junction, decried the voter apathy, linking it to the security crisis in the country. Also, an APC party agent at the same polling unit and ward, Mr Omoola Olawale, said, “People are not coming out, maybe because of the hardship in the land. Although some people came out, it was not encouraging.” A PDP agent at the same polling unit, Mr Lawrence Akomu, said although the exercise was peaceful, the issue of voter apathy was glaring. “The problem is voter apathy because people are no longer interested in this kind of exercise. Also, all along, those who got the mandate to represent the people didn’t meet expectations. Voters are dissuaded because of a lot of disappointments from politicians,” he said. Also, low voter turnout characterised the Imo North bye-election which took place in the six local government areas that make up the senatorial district. One of our correspondents who monitored the exercise witnessed that many people opened their businesses while the election was on at areas like Anara, Amaraku, Aba Branch, Malaysian market, Isinwaeke, and Orieagu. An APC chieftain, Chikwem Onuoha, who spoke with journalists after casting his vote, said his party would coast to victory. A PDP candidate, Emmanuel Okewulonu, who also spoke with journalists after casting his vote, said he would win if the integrity of the process was not undermined. There was also a low voter turnout in many parts of Borno State where the exercise held, with many residents saying they were unaware of the exercise. Speaking with journalists in Maiduguri, the INEC Public Information Officer in the state, Abba Liberty, said the election was peaceful, adding that result collation started as of 2.30pm. In the Bakori Local Government Area of Katsina State, some voters said the heavy presence of security operatives scared them away from the polling units. The bye-election was to fill the vacant seat of Bakori Constituency in the state House of Assembly whose former occupant, Abdurrazaq Tsiga, died in May after a protracted illness. It was, however, observed that the majority of voters who turned up for the exercise were women in all the 11 wards that make up the local government area. Counting of votes had already begun by press time while INEC sources disclosed that the final result for the election might not be announced until Sunday morning. The state INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, Alhaji Jibril Zarewa, said he was satisfied with the voters’ conduct. One of our correspondents also observed low voter turnout in the bye-election for Plateau South Senatorial District held across the six council areas that make up the zone. Some of the headquarters of the local government areas visited were Mikang, Langtang North, and Shendam. Some areas in the Mikang Local Government Area like Tunkus, Mdega’am, Piapung, Konggung, Muanpus and Lakai, however, saw a large voter turnout. Governor Simon Lalong, who voted at his Ajimakai polling unit around 11.41am, expressed satisfaction with the security during the election. As of the time of filing this report, voting had been concluded and vote counting had commenced. Meanwhile, the heavy presence of armed security men allegedly caused low turnout of voters for the bye-election at Ibaji Constituency in Kogi State. The state Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Alhaji Muktar Atimah, described the voter turnout as “abysmally low.” He also described the exercise as a sham due to what he said was poor organisation by INEC. Atimah, in an interview with journalists after monitoring the exercise at Ibaji, claimed that the process was infiltrated by fake security personnel, thus preventing many voters from coming out to exercise their franchise for fear of being attacked. However, the state INEC Head of Department, Voter Education and Enlightenment, Bagudu Biambo, debunked the allegation. He said election materials arrived at polling units as early as 8am with accreditation and voting taking place simultaneously. But, the African Democratic Party candidate, Arome Omonu, disagreed with the commission, saying as of 11am at his polling unit and many others across all the wards, materials had not arrived. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Panel uncovers names of dead workers, retirees on Kogi payroll Meanwhile, low voter turnout was also reported by our correspondents in Bayelsa and Cross River states. During the Cross River North Senatorial District bye-election, an INEC National Commissioner, Festus Okoye, called for security reinforcement due to unruly behaviour by some voters at a Registration Area Centre at Ward 1, Ogoja Urban located in St Ben’s Primary School. Okoye warned that the exercise would be cancelled anywhere there was disruption. This is as there were allegations of ballot box snatching at Mbube in the Ogoja Local Government Area. At the time of this report, a few results had been announced. APC kicks as Gbadamosi alleges rigging, thuggery In the meantime, the PDP candidate in the Lagos-East Senatorial District election, Mr Babatunde Gbadamosi, said the Lagos bye-elections were fraught with rigging, violence and predetermination of election results by the ruling APC. Gbadamosi said the APC spent money desperately to ensure its victory, by all means, adding that the violence-ridden election had a person shot dead in the Kosofe area. The APC, however, on Saturday said Gbadamosi should be pitied as a “serial contestant with a consistent record of monumental failure and rejection at the poll” who lost even in his ancestral home. The party noted that the allegations of rigging were untrue and laughable. Gbadamosi, in an interview with one of our correspondents, said with voter apathy in most areas, the figures coming out from the results betrayed the turnout. He said, “Clearly, the turnout was low; there was serious voter apathy. But it looks like the figures do not reflect the turnout. So I am not sure of what happened, whether there were some ghosts that turned out to vote or not. “This was particularly in areas like Epe and Ibeju-Lekki as well as some parts of Kosofe where hundreds of votes were registered, whereas the evidence on the ground does not support the kind of figures that we saw in the results that have been coming out. “It is clear that elections in Nigeria are not really elections. The party with the most money spends that money to make sure that predetermined result is what prevails. And in his case, that will be the All Progressives Congress.” When asked if he would go to court to contest the results, Gbadamosi said, “We will see about that. We are already in court on a pre-election matter and we will see how that goes.” Meanwhile, the Lagos APC Spokesperson, Mr Seye Oladejo, said the party was not surprised with the allegations. He said, “We are not surprised by Gbadamosi’s reaction to the results of an election that has yet to be officially declared because he is so predictable. However, we acknowledge feelers from our agents who have reported an overwhelming victory for our candidate, Tokunbo Abiru. “We can only empathise with a serial contestant with a consistent record of monumental failure and rejection at the poll.” High turnout in Bauchi as Dogara, gov battle for LGAs’ control There was a massive turnout of voters at the Dass State Assembly Constituency bye-election held on Saturday. Sunday PUNCH reports that the Dass Constituency seat became vacant following the gruesome murder of the member who represented the constituency, Musa Baraza, by gunmen on August 14, 2020 at his residence in Dass. Findings revealed that the massive voter turnout was because the local government area is one of the three that the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, represents at the lower chamber. Dogara fell out with the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, after he defected from the PDP to APC. While Dogara is fighting hard to keep the three local government areas he represents away from the PDP, the latter is bent on winning the election. One of our correspondents who monitored the election in the local government area observed that the exercise was peaceful and orderly with the heavy presence of security personnel at the polling units visited. Most of the polling units commenced voting around 9:15am. The Presiding Officer of Kwara/Mbak Government Social Welfare Polling Unit, Saleh Abubakar, said the exercise was peaceful even as the people were eager to cast their votes. Vote-buying, high voter turnout in Zamfara poll Despite INEC’s warning against vote-buying, the phenomenon characterised the bye-election at Bakura Constituency in the Bakura Local Government Area of Zamfara State. One of our correspondents who went round some polling units saw party agents doling out money to the voters without anybody cautioning them. Brocades were also given to some voters. Vote-buying became glaring at Uban Dawaki polling unit in Bakura town where two men were seen offloading bundles of brocades meant for vote-buying from a waiting vehicle. Many voters, especially women, were seen going home with the gifts they collected from the politicians. Violence, ballot box snatching trail Bayelsa, Enugu polls In Bayelsa State, the exercise was characterised by violence, including snatching of ballot boxes and ballot papers. The polls also recorded the late arrival of INEC personnel and election materials at polling units, which resulted in the late commencement of voting across the two senatorial districts. In Bayelsa Central, political thugs hijacked electoral materials meant for polling unit 21 at Opolo and the polling unit 18 Aguadama-Ekpetiama as well as Okaka, all in Yenagoa Local Government Area. A voter in Okaka, Marcus Adovuya, said, “I came to vote at Okaka Primary School, but some bad boys snatched the ballot boxes and the ballot papers, so we can’t vote.” In Bayelsa West, the snatching of ballot boxes and ballot papers were also recorded at Agbere polling unit and Agoro polling unit 21, both in Sagbama Local Government Area. At Ogu and Akaba in unit 12, and Biseni 7 and 12, also in Yenagoa Local Government Area, INEC ad hoc staff and materials were reported to have arrived late at voting centres. The exercise, however, was reportedly peaceful in the Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area of Bayelsa Central where the state Governor, Douye Diri, comes from. Violence mars polls in Enugu The Isi-Uzo Enugu State Constituency bye-election was also marred by violence. One of our correspondents who monitored the exercise noted that there were skirmishes at various polling units, particularly Umaram, Ogo Ikem, Obegwu and Community Secondary School polling units. Despite the heavy security presence at virtually all the voting centres, there were incidents of ballot box snatching that made some voters, particularly the aged, to abandon the civic exercise and go back to their respective homes. At a polling unit at Ikem, some political thugs reportedly unleashed terror on a retired Customs officer and APC chieftain, Tony Mba. The miscreants had after molesting Mba removed his eyeglasses and smashed them. Addressing journalists after going round some polling units, the Enugu State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr Emeka Ononanadu, however, expressed satisfaction with the voter turnout. He said the violence witnessed at some polling units were purely internal issues between the political gladiators. Three cops die in Bayelsa election eve boat mishap Three policemen on bye-election duty drowned in Bayelsa State on Saturday evening. They were said to have died on their way to the Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa Central Senatorial District. The speedboat in which they were travelling reportedly capsized. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bayelsa State Police Command, Asinim Butswat, confirmed the accident. “The boat capsized on their way to Oporoma, headquarters of Southern Ijaw Local Government Area,” he said. Butswat, however, said the number of casualties had yet to be ascertained. Diri confident Dickson’ll coast to victory Bayelsa State Governor, Diri, expressed confidence that the two flagbearers of the PDP, Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa West) and Moses Cleopas Moses (Bayelsa Central), would emerge victorious at the polls. READ ALSO: Constitution amendment suffers setback as Senate fails to fund panel The governor, who spoke to newsmen after voting at his polling unit 4, ward 6 in his Sampou community, Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area, described the exercise as peaceful. According to the News Agency of Nigeria, Diri said, “The candidates of PDP are incomparable. We fielded quality candidates and you can see the difference between the PDP candidates and particularly the other candidates. I don’t want to mention the names. “The Senate is not a place for jokers or people who were dismissed from the service. However, the name of the APC candidate for Bayelsa West and former deputy governor of the state, Peremobowei Ebebi, was conspicuously missing on page 10 of the ‘INEC Information Booklet’ published by the commission for the exercise. The state Head, Voter Education and Publicity, INEC, Wilfred Ifogah, explained that the electoral umpire “relied on a court judgment of December 3” to exclude Ebebi and his party from the polls.    ,, Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 