’Femi Asu dangote Group has been adjudged the best company in Corporate Social Responsibility in Lagos by the Lagos State Council of the Nigeria Institute of Public Relations for its intervention efforts to help the vulnerable at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. The company was also named the ‘Best Company in Infrastructure Development’ at the 5th Lagos PR Industry Gala and Award in Lagos in recognition of its work in building roads that endure, Dangote said in a statement on Tuesday. According to the statement, Dangote Group, through its Aliko Dangote Foundation, in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria, had led private sector operators to mobilise over N43bn to help the federal and state governments to cushion the effect of COVID-19 by building isolation centres, providing testing kits and other sundry medical supplies. Speaking during the event, the Selection Panel Chairman, Muyiwa Akintunde, was quoted as saying that the panel relied on available data and credible sources to select the nominees that were later voted for by members of the council. He said, “We recalled campaigns that delivered impact and resonated well after execution. We identified individuals who recorded exceptional achievements in the marketing communications sector. “We considered organisations that recorded outstanding wins. These and other factors led to the panel coming up with a minimum of three nominees in each of the 30 categories that were up for voting.” In his remarks after the award presentation, Chief Branding and Corporate Communications, Dangote Group, Mr Tony Chiejina, said, “Winning these awards is not by any means a small feat, considering that NIPR, Lagos Council is the largest of the councils, accounting for over 60 per cent of the total PR and communications professionals in the country. “These two awards are deserved and well appreciated.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  