Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The National Emergency Management Agency on Monday said 68 lives were lost to floods in 2020 in various parts of Nigeria at 68. It also announced that 320 Local Government Areas in 35 states including the Federal Capital Territory were adversely affected by the floods experienced across the country this year. The Director-General, NEMA, Muhammadu Muhammed, disclosed this at the 2020 Flood After Action Review Technical Meeting in Abuja. He said, “The devastating impact of 2020 flooding killed 68 people, affected 35 states including FCT, 320 LGAs and over 129,000 people. “It led to loss of lives, it destroyed houses and washed away farmlands across the country thereby having negative impact on food security.” Muhammed observed that before the 2020 flooding occurred, the world was experiencing the COVlD-19 pandemic with lockdown and restriction protocols to contain the spread of the virus. “After the release of the seasonal rainfall prediction by NiMet and the annual flood outlook by the Nigeria Hydrological Agency, our worst fear was confirmed with the devasting flood disaster within the pandemic,” he stated. The NEMA boss said the technical meeting was therefore planned to review various activities carried out in respect of 2020 flood preparedness, mitigation and response. This, he said, was a view to capturing lessons learnt and to make recommendations that could improve the ability of institutions to coordinate actions that would guide future actions on flooding in Nigeria. “An after action review is geared towards improving performance by reflecting on activities or experience, thereby avoiding past mistakes and replicating successes,” Muhammed said. He noted that the AAR tool was a means to transform institutions to high reliability organisations, adding that it was one method chosen by NEMA to capture lessons learnt and identify recommended changes for implementation. Muhammed said the thematic areas to be focused on during this review meeting include coordination, policy and procedures, strategic level multi-agency coordination and decision making. Others include training and staffing, preparedness and contingency planning, as well as information and data collection. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 