Temiloluwa O’Peters The founder of Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, Atedo Peterside, has called on the government not to shut down small businesses in response to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement issued by the Anap Foundation COVID-19 Think Tank, signed by the Chairman, Peterside and the Vice-Chairman, Abubakar Mohammed, Peterside said the response to the second wave must take into consideration Nigeria’s realities. He said it was important to take into consideration the current recession in the country, high unemployment and rising insecurity which would worsen if smaller businesses were shut down. He canvassed for stakeholders, led by the federal and state governments, to instead come up with a smart crisis management plan to address the second wave of the pandemic. “Our response must take into consideration Nigeria’s realities: recession, high unemployment and rising insecurity. We cannot shut down small businesses,” Peterside said. He suggested that the government look to countries with similar realities as Nigeria such as Ethiopia and Senegal. The statement said, “We recommend: one, businesses stay open across the country on the condition that all Nigerians self-regulate and ‘celebrate responsibly’ by wearing face coverings, maintaining physical distance from others, avoiding indoor crowds and washing hands frequently. “Two, the intensification of campaigns on public health policy behavioral change with firm and humane oversight by applicable agencies and society leaders; “Three, those who can, should be encouraged to work from home.” Peterside added that the country needed not to join the reactive ban on flights to and from the United Kingdom and/or other hotspots due to the existing robust travel protocols requiring tests before boarding, seven days’ isolation on arrival and a second test. He however suggested closer monitoring of the post-arrival COVID-19 quarantine of travellers into Nigeria to help limit the risk of imported infections. The chairman said the effective implementation of the measures suggested, along with adherence to recent awareness campaigns, could help ease the hardship on citizens whilst curbing the spread of COVID-19.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com