Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt A former lawmaker representing Rivers South-East District in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Abe, has condemned the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, for inaugurating the Local Government and Ward Executives of the All Progressives Congress, in Rivers State. Abe’s spoke barely 24-hours after the Isaac Abbot-Ogbobula-led APC faction with the backing of the Mai Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee inaugurated a new executive at the local government and ward levels. Abe, in a statement signed by his spokesperson, Parry Benson, said, “It is this imperial approach to the challenges facing the party without the input and consultation of other stakeholders’ that is responsible for the crisis in the party. “It is clear that those who believe in the power of man are once again on the move. “It is indeed unfortunate at this critical time in the political game, that the APC in Rivers State has learnt nothing and forgotten nothing, it appears that the minister and his supporters are still hell-bent on their way or the highway. “The end result of this kind of behaviour is not difficult to predict. As usual, it will end in failure. When it fails, Nigerians should note that the choice of impunity, disrespect for party members, exclusion of critical stakeholders, contempt for judicial pronouncements and petty arrogance, over humility and inclusiveness is the foundation of our serial failure as a party.” The statement recalled that Abe had in an earlier letter to the APC National Caretaker Committee Chairman, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni, dated the 5th day of December, 2020, advised the party on the need to review it modus operandi in Rivers state. The letter titled, ‘The National Membership Revalidation Exercise: The Rivers State Situation,’ read in part: “This position of the party taken and sustained at the behest of certain individuals, has made it impossible for the party to make progress in Rivers State, all sorts of frivolous lawsuits which cannot in any way overturn the pronouncement of the Supreme Court are sustained to massage political egos, and create the illusion that there is a possible legal solution to the challenges of the APC in Rivers State that can sidestep the Supreme Court judgement.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   