Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, on Monday, expressed regret that some persons occupying privileged positions of authority flagrantly disobeyed court orders and made a boast of it. The CJN who warned that would now be met with severe consequences, also said court invaders would be sent to prisons to be tutored. This is contained in the CJN’s prepared speech read by the next most senior Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour, at the ceremony marking the commencement of the Supreme Court’s new 2020/2021 legal year and conferment of the rank of Senior Advocates of Nigeria on 72 lawyers. The CJN was conspicuously absent from the event held at the ceremonial courtroom of the Supreme Court in Abuja. No reason was offered for his absence from the ceremony, which is arguably the most important scheduled annual event on the diary of the Supreme Court often looked forward to by stakeholders within and outside the judiciary. Justice Muhammad, in his speech, addressed many contemporary issues concerning the judiciary. On the issue of disobedience of court orders, the CJN said those in authority who took pleasure in doing it should desist as such acts would no longer be condoned and culprits would be punished. He said, “Obedience of lawful court orders has no alternative in any sane society. “A threat to this is simply a call for anarchy. I believe strongly that there is no right-thinking citizen of this country who will tread that path of infamy. We must respect and duly observe all the tenets of an enduring democracy. “Nigeria is not a lawless society and no one, irrespective of his or her status, should turn it into one. “Most times, some persons who, by sheer stroke of providence, find themselves in the position of authority, flagrantly disobey lawful court orders, and even make a boast of it. “Such acts will henceforth not be condoned. In fact, they will be met with severe consequences. We must extinguish such raging fire before it consumes us.” The CJN also said the judiciary would not only bark but also bite if courtrooms were ever invaded by some people again. A representative of the Body of SAN, Chief Thomson Okpoko (SAN), advocated the establishment state Court of Appeal to help in decongestion of the Supreme Court.