’Femi Asu Eko Electricity Distribution Company has said it remains committed to health, safety and environment. The power firm, in a statement on Wednesday, announced the introduction of an HSE awareness engagement with children. It also reiterated its commitment to the inclusion of all stakeholders in its operations and contributing optimally to the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals on good health and wellbeing, quality education as well as affordable and clean energy respectively. The EKEDC said the recent engagement session it had with children was borne out of its decision  to engage young minds at an early stage in order to educate them on the rudiments of HSE. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, EKEDC, Mr Adeoye Fadeyibi, said the session was part of the company’s resolve to inculcate educational programmes and initiatives for children and young adults into all areas of its operations. “Engagements such as this are crucial to laying proper foundation for raising children that are well informed on HSE, thereby contributing to not only quality education but also good health and wellbeing as well as the betterment of the society at large,” he said. During the session coordinated by EKEDC’s OHSE consultant, Ampak Nigeria Limited, the Chief Audit and Compliance Officer of EKEDC, Sheri Adegbenro, reiterated the Disco’s commitment to the SDGs and the education of the young minds on HSE. She expressed delight over the ‘Safeguarding Young Minds for a Smart Tomorrow’ programme and the immense benefits of the programme to the children. She also stressed the importance of good health and wellbeing in raising smart, properly educated and well-grounded children. According to the statement, the engagement comprised four main sessions including teachings on basic HSE signs and symbols, elementary first aid and CPR, environmental awareness and fire safety as well as practical demonstrations of lessons learnt during the sessions. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 