Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa Friday Olokor, Abuja A former Kano State governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso on Thursday said, he had no regret playing a role in making a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Sanusi Lamido, the Emir of Kano. He also prayed to God Almighty to “save Kano State and indeed the whole country from the present quagmire that we found ourselves.” According to him, the appointment and coronation of the Emir involved a consultative process that is guided by law, adding that as the then Governor of Kano State, he knew the type of people to consult when it came to such critical issues which border on life-long appointments like the successor of the late Emir Ado Bayero. The former Minister of Defence was responding to the comments made by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje (his former Deputy), during the public presentation of a book entitled, ‘Dear President Goodluck Jonathan (An Open Letter),” written by a former Managing Editor of the Daily Times Newspaper, Bonaventure Melah. Ganduje had at the event held in Abuja said, he dethroned Sanusi in March 2020, to save the traditional institution from abuse, even though he was not the best among the contestants. In response, Kwankwaso in a statement titled, ‘Ganduje and the blabbering of an impostor’, signed by his Principal Private Secretary, Muhammad Inuwa, said, he opted for the ex-CBN governor because he was looking for a progressive Emir that would succeed Ado Bayero. He said, “Certainly, everyone that knows Governor Ganduje will attest that he is not a progressive and hence that was why Kwankwaso deliberately refused to consult him on the choice of Muhammad Sanusi II as new Emir. “We know that Ganduje is averse to everything that Emir Sanusi II represents (knowledge, wisdom, experience, progressive ideals, and the love for the common man), and we know that Ganduje always feels diminished and inferior in the presence of the Emir, and we know that Ganduje harbours a pathological hatred for the Kano traditional Institution, and we know that Ganduje was madly obsessed with reversing everything that Kwankwaso did in the state.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 