Peter Dada, Akure Some suspected hoodlums allegedly attacked Isinigbo Community in the Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State on Friday, killing two persons and destroying property worth millions of naira. It was gathered that the attack was connected to the communal crisis between Isinigbo and a neighbouring community of Ode, which had been attacked a few days earlier. It was reported that the monarch of the town, Oba Sunday Boboye, narrowly escaped being killed by the suspected attackers. Ode was attacked twice in the last two weeks while the two palaces of the monarch of the town were set ablaze allegedly by some youths from Isinigbo. Isinigbo and neighbouring Ode community have been in a bitter land dispute which was said to have led to a series of litigation. But on Friday, a source said two persons were killed in the attack on Isinigbo while many houses, including the palace of the traditional ruler of the community, were burnt down by the suspected hoodlums at midnight. It was learnt that the monarch of the community, Oba Samuel Fadahunsi, sustained injuries in the attack and had been hospitalised. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr. Tee-Leo Ikoro, confirmed that two people were killed during the attack. He disclosed that the driver of the monarch was burnt by the gunmen while the traditional ruler’s brother was shot. The PPRO stated that some arrests had been made and the command had commenced investigation into the matter. “We are on top of the situation,” Ikoro added. Meanwhile, in response to the communal clashes, the state government has imposed a 24-hour curfew on both communities with immediate effect. This was contained in a statement issued by the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr Donald Ojogo, on Friday. Ojogo said Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had also ordered a massive manhunt for the perpetrators of the violence. Ojogo said, “With respect to the curfew, security agencies have been directed to ensure total compliance with the order. For emphasis, both Ode and Isinigbo communities have been closed down for any unauthorised human movement and activity until further notice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 