Ife Ogunfuwa Stakeholders in the private sector say Nigeria’s competitiveness within Africa will improve if the government bridges the infrastructure deficit in the country. The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria spoke at  a workshop organised by the Commerce and Industry Correspondents Association of Nigeria in Lagos. They also called for an improvement in port facilities to facilitate participation of Nigeria in the African Continental Free Trade Area. The Director-General, NACCIMA, Ayoola Olukanni, said policies must be implemented to improve ease of doing business and to reduce the cost of doing business, especially for SMEs, which contribute about 48 per cent to the national GDP and provide about 84 per cent employment according to various studies. He added that opportunities were also now opening up as the nation prepared for the operationalisation of the African Continental Free Trade Area in January 2021. He said, “We must also reposition the Nigerian economy especially the manufacturing sector by improving infrastructure such as power, roads, rail and ensure efficient functioning of our ports. “This is to enable us compete effectively and successfully under the AfCFTA. We must encourage private sector operators to key into the AfCFTA essentially because they will be the key players under the agreement,” he said. The NACCIMA boss said data from the National Bureau of Statistics showed that 21.8 million Nigerians were unemployed, out of a workforce of 80.2 million Nigerians. He stated that the NBS data indicated that economic growth rate of national output stood at negative 3.62 per cent as of the third quarter of 2020 while the inflation rate stood at 14.23 per cent as of October 2020. “We face dwindling foreign exchange reserves, increasing domestic and foreign debt, and difficulties in doing business brought about largely by an infrastructure deficit in the power and transportation sectors,” he said. “Implicitly, our SMEs which are the private sector operators are the bedrock of our economy and we must do all we can to support them, not just to survive but to flourish as we consider strategic options out of recession hopefully by first quarter of 2021,” he stressed. Also speaking, the acting Director-General of MAN, Ambrose Oruche, said the policies formulated to drive manufacturing in the country were not supportive. He expressed doubt if the sector would be out of doldrums by the first quarter of 2021. He said the environment must be created for manufacturing to thrive and called on Nigerians to patronise locally-made goods. Oruche pointed out that having a penchant for foreign goods would make local manufacturers struggle for patronage as soon as the African Continental Free Trade Agreement kicks off in 2021. “The organised private sector is ready to take advantage of the trade deal, but we currently do not have the facilities to be competitive. Nigeria should be able to take advantage of this opportunity being the top manufacturing country in Africa, but deficiency in infrastructure is a great bottleneck,” he said. The President, Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria, Alhaji Aminu Gwadabe, highlighted steps to achieve a virile real sector growth in Nigeria. He stated that the Nigerian business environment was becoming more hostile and unbearable, maintaining that the horrible business environment was being compounded by the escalating exchange rates and forex scarcity coupled with the COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, one of the strongest challenges hindering the sector is multiple taxation. He advised that for Nigeria to come out of recession, the government must remove all multiple taxes levied on manufacturers, and encourage manufacturers with investment-friendly policies. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 