Daniels Igoni Yenagoa The Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr Douye Diri, has described the year 2020 as “dynamic, turbulent and challenging”, urging the people to be courageous in 2021. Diri in his New Year Day broadcast titled, ‘Message of Hope and Prosperity’, said his administration would diversify the state’s economy away from the total dependence on oil-related monthly receipts as well as create more jobs to engage the youths. He stressed the need for Bayelsans to partner with his government to create a conducive environment that would attract investors and tourists to the state. He said the people must resolve to develop the state so that the dream of its founding fathers for a prosperous Bayelsa would be realised. The governor in a press release by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, said, “We will diversify our economy, create sustainable jobs to engage our youths and explore alternative sources of improving our internally generated revenue. If we look inwards, the buds of change that have opened since we took over the government will begin to yield fruit. “As a government, we will continue to make the responsible choices and take the tough decisions that will enhance our quest for a prosperous state. “We are conscious that the decisions we make today have far-reaching implications for generations yet unborn. It is a responsibility we take very conscientiously. Therefore, we cannot afford to abdicate our duty.” He noted that his administration had made headway despite all odds by taken important decisions that had created a lot of difference, citing proactive actions that were initiated and accounted for the peace and security of the state in the outgone year. Diri further said, “We are also proud of the interventions we made in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic that ensured that our state recorded one of the least casualties and fatalities in the country. Thank you for your cooperation in this regard. Needless to say, the fight against this unseen enemy is far from over. I implore you to remain vigilant until we conquer this foe.” Diri expressed appreciation to citizens of the state for their solidarity with and support for his Prosperity Administration and promised to work hard to justify their trust and confidence.