Kayode Oyero The British Government has introduced a points-based immigration system to attract the “brightest and the best” skilled workers from around the world. UK Secretary of State for the Home Department, Priti Patel, announced this in a statement. According to her, applications for the new skilled worker visa opened on December 1, 2020, and skilled workers can apply to work in the UK from January 1, 2021. Patel, in the statement titled, ‘Points-based immigration system opens’, explained that “those who have an exceptional talent or show exceptional promise in the fields of engineering, science, tech or culture” have a greater chance in the points-based immigration system. The statement read, “Under the points-based immigration system, points will be awarded for a job offer at the appropriate skill level, knowledge of English and being paid a minimum salary. Skilled worker visas will be awarded to those who gain enough points. “The new immigration rules will ensure that businesses can recruit the most highly qualified from across the globe to drive the economy forwards and keep the UK at the frontier of innovation.” [READ ALSO] Gas conversion: FG makes U-turn, says vehicle owners to pay N250,000 The statement further read, “People will normally need to be paid at least £25,600 per year unless the ‘going rate’ for that job is higher. “Applications are made online, and as part of this, people will need to prove their identity and provide their documents. “Once someone outside the UK has gone through all these steps, they will usually get a decision within 3 weeks. “They will need to have enough money to pay the application fee (ranging from £610 to £1,408), the healthcare surcharge (usually £624 per year) and be able to support themselves (usually by having at least £1,270 available). The visa lasts for up to 5 years before it needs to be extended.” Canada, one of the top destinations of Nigerians looking for greener pasture, achieved the status after the North American country introduced a points-based immigration system that offers migrants permanent residency.