Patrick Odey, Uyo Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, has said he was prepared at any time to render account for all the funds collected and spent by the state under his stewardship. He said those using social and online media platforms to run down his administration by alleging that the state has taken control of Local Government funds were lying. The Governor said this while swearing in the 31 local government chairmen, in Uyo, on Monday. He said, “I can bet, from the Accountant General to the Commissioners I can account for the last penny. If it is possible, they can even be publishing the schedule so that you see. “As at the time we came into office we met arrears of pensions of local government and primary School teachers. Today, we’ve cleared everything. “Last month we had to intervene for some of our pensioners to be paid because of poor allocation. We must stop saying things that are negative, things that are untrue about a government that is trying to be transparent.” He promised to set up a platform tagged “Ask Me” before the year runs out. Emmanuel explained that the platform would enable citizens to seek answers to questions on state finances. Addressing the new chairmen, Emmanuel said, “You have been elected to serve your people diligently at a tough time. Serving the people at this time, according to the Bible, falls under end times. Serving the people at these end times is a difficult task. You have to bear that in mind. Let me also charge you that you are elected to work. “We have only one government, one state and we are one people. We are developing a state where we don’t place much emphasis on the party you belong to, but what you can do for your people and what you can do to help us achieve what we want to achieve. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   