Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Chief Medical Director, Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti, Prof. Kayode Olabanji, has urged the workers of the hospital to be committed to ensure improvement in its service delivery. Olabanji, who hailed the institution’s workers,l urged them to key into the facility’s new slogan, ‘EKSUTH, my hospital, your hospital, our hospital.’ The CMD spoke in Ado Ekiti during the inauguration of the new executives of EKSUTH Branch of the Senior Staff Association of Universities Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions chaired by Anthony Arigbede. He said, “When we see this place as ‘my hospital, your hospital and our hospital’, we will do things with that in mind believing that we are part and parcel as everybody is important and we don’t see it as their hospital, management’s hospital and head of the department’s hospital. “This way, we want to project things better, we want to give better services, we want our interaction to be better for everybody to see that things have changed for the better and we will continue to improve on that.” Olabanji, who lauded the determination of the senior staff and the new executives to have the union, expressed the management’s resolve to support them to succeed “We see unions as partners in progress because the business belongs to all of us. It is a welcome development that the SSAUTHRIAI is formally taking off. “All we want is a better service. As we are giving their welfare priority, we expect that the workers will reciprocate by discharging their duties very well particularly in their area of interaction with members of the public that we are serving. “We should always be ready to be of help and assistance according to the dictate of our works and from our training and level of experience,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  