Sodiq Oyeleke The United States Consulate General Lagos in collaboration with Global Air Drone Academy and Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority has announced a call for applications for the Nigerian Drone Business Competition. This was contained in a statement from the Public Affairs Section of the United States Consulate General titled, ‘Consulate Supports Drone Bootcamp for Young Nigerian Entrepreneurs’. The statement noted that the programme scheduled to hold from January 18-22, 2021, would nurture creativity and hone entrepreneurial skills among Nigeria-based early-stage youth technology entrepreneurs. “Thirty applicants will be selected for an opportunity to learn from experienced drone professionals at GADA, a Federal Aviation Administration licensed drone services company based in Maryland, United States. “The bootcamp will teach the budding entrepreneurs how to relate this emerging drone technology to real-world practical solutions, as well as the expertise for safely operating and flying a drone. Participants will also learn the practical skills required to create, run and successfully market their start-ups in 2021 and beyond. “At the end of the five-day virtual bootcamp, participants will have an opportunity to pitch their business plans to a panel of judges. The top three winners will receive professional grade drones and business coaching to support the launch of their new business,” the statement added. It quoted the United States Consulate Public Affairs Officer, Stephen Ibelli, as saying that the US Mission in Nigeria is committed to supporting programs that provide youth with access to quality technological learning opportunities. “The United States Consulate General is pleased to support the Nigerian Drone Business Competition. This program advances the U.S. Mission’s goal of promoting STEM education in Nigeria as a driver of sustainable economic growth,” Ibelli added. “This competition, being held in coordination with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, is open to all Nigerian citizens/residents aged 16-30. Young Nigerian tech entrepreneurs interested in participating in the Nigerian Drone Business Competition can apply at no cost. Applications will be accepted until midnight December 31, 2020,” the statement added.