Joseph Olaoluwa Freight forwarders are not convinced that the perennial gridlock issues faced at the Lagos port will subside. This is following the decision of the Lagos State Government to take over the control of Apapa gridlock from the Federal Task Force. In a series of interviews, some of the freight forwarders who spoke to our correspondent were unsure anything good would come out from the intervention. A freight forwarder, Gbemi Ola, said, “The rot is deeper than this ill-advised frenzy. I don’t think anything will change.” He noted that he was presented with the opportunity of participating in a questionnaire or survey but was not keen on participating because he was not sure any of his contributions in abating the traffic would be entertained. Similarly, Daniel Prince, another freight forwarder said, “I can’t really say. The presidency was there and it got this bad; now the Lagos State Government is involved, it might get worse but I just hope not.” However, the President of the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations, Leye Thompson supported the idea. He said, “It is a welcome development. It will help our business.” On Monday, the Lagos State Government disclosed its plans to take over traffic control in Apapa from the Presidential Task Force. The development unfolded barely a week after the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, had said that 200 security officers would be deployed to Apapa and Tin-Can Ports to clear the gridlock on the route and enforce compliance on trucks not to park on the road. The State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said a team of dedicated officers from Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, and policemen from Area B would be saddled with the task. The team is to take over from the Presidential Task Force on Apapa traffic that had been working to ease the perennial gridlock in Apapa since 2019. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  