Nike Popoola The Lagos State Government and the Magodo Residents Association have reached common grounds on contents of the review of Magodo Residential Scheme II Plan. The government said this in a statement on Friday entitled ‘LASG, MRA agree on review of Magodo Residential Scheme II Plan’. After several meetings, the two sides finally agreed to leave the estate as residential with no mixed developments, while those who had converted their uses would be made to revert to status quo ante. It was also agreed, among others, that no development would be tolerated on Magodo wetlands, CMD road would remain mixed use, while the other side of CMD road would be recovered as buffer zone for the expressway. Speaking at the stakeholders’ meeting at the Magodo Community Hall on Friday, the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, said that the review of the plan of the medium residential estate was important as it bordered on sustainability of the well-planned residential area for the benefit of all and sundry. He recalled that the Lagos State Government, as part of its intervention of bridging the housing gap in the state, had created the Magodo Residential Schemes, strictly as medium residential estates, through the New Towns Development Authority, which had the mandate to develop residential schemes for different strata of the society. “As a government scheme, it is a truism that your estate, at inception, had gone through the appropriate planning processes to bequeath a serene, orderly, organised and sustainable environment,” he said. He added that standard partial and sectoral considerations had equally been made, in line with international best practices, while provisions had been made for all necessary services. Salako decried the unapproved change of the estate plan by residents who had unilaterally and illegally altered their uses to allow offices, religious houses and commercial activities of different types spring up in areas where they are not designated. “It is discomfiting how the government vision of accommodating the elites of the society in an ambient environment is gradually supplanted by an unsalutary culture of arbitrariness, which, if care is not taken, may create planning disorder and throw up slumming challenges,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  