John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Congress on Monday disagreed over a statement made by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to the effect that the APC swept last Saturday’s bye-elections held across the country. The opposition PDP in a statement titled, “Bye-Elections: APC Didn’t Sweep Polls, PDP Replies Buhari…Chides President For Abandoning Governance For Party Spokesmanship,” which was signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbodiyan, in Abuja, on Monday, said the President has abandoned his primary duties and has become a spokesperson for his party. The statement read in part, “The PDP chides the Buhari Presidency for resorting to false poll sweep claims on the December 5 bye-elections, describing it as another desperate measure to divert public attention from its manifest failures. “The PDP also mocks President Muhammadu Buhari for assuming the role of an emergency spokesman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in a bid to launder the image of the dying party. “The PDP asserts that President Buhari has by this confirmed that he has indeed become a lame duck President, having abdicated his presidential responsibilities of securing the nation and managing the economy to issuing press statements for APC and struggling for media space, as spokesperson and image launderer of the party.“ Ologbondiyan further said, “Perhaps Mr. President’s handlers ought to have informed him that out of the six senatorial bye-elections, the PDP freely swept three in free, fair and credible contests, while the APC only muscle the other three in polls that were marred by manifest irregularities and rigging. In an apparent response, the APC in a statement titled, “Legislative Bye-Elections: A Display of President Buhari, APC’s National Appeal, Acceptance,” signed by the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, also in Abuja, on Monday, the ruling party said, “From Imo, Bauchi, Lagos, Plateau and other states were Saturday’s concurrent legislative by-elections were conducted across the country, the massive electoral victories recorded by the APC is a solid display and pointer that the APC remains the only political party with a true national appeal and acceptance by Nigerians, across geo-political zones and sundry groupings. “As a governing party, the APC does not take the massive national support for granted. This is indeed a true demonstration that President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC government he leads remains massively popular with Nigerians, despite the warped narrative some opposition partisans try to sell.” The party further said, “We received with sadness and regret the casualties resulting from the unfortunate boat mishap involving some policemen on election duty in Bayelsa state as well as some election irregularities in some states were the concurrent legislative bye-elections were held. “Although the by-elections were largely peaceful and hitch-free, we must continue to support the Independent National Electoral Commission and other relevant bodies ensure the credibility and efficiency of our election processes.”