John Alechenu, Abuja The Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress will only liaise with inaugurated caretaker committees in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory, in the membership registration and revalidation exercise, The PUNCH has learnt. Our correspondent gathered in Abuja, on Monda, that the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led committee was working on setting up independent panels to work with state caretaker committees to ensure a transparent process. A top-ranking party source who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to speak on the matter at this time said, “The process of setting up teams to go to the states to conduct the exercise is ongoing. “The teams will be given the materials to conduct the exercise in all states we will be liaising with state caretaker committee members duly inaugurated here in Abuja. This is in accordance with the decision of the National Executive Committee meeting held on December 8, 2020. “Recall that the situation in Edo has taken care of itself; those who wanted to cause trouble within our ranks have left to join their pay masters in the other party, we can now effectively reorganise ourselves and rebuild the party.” The party, it was further gathered, was prepared to use the carrot and stick approach to whip aggrieved members into line. The source explained,  “We will expect that all members wishing to register/ revalidate their membership, must have complied with the NEC directive to withdraw all pending litigations against the party or its leaders from court. Those who fail to comply know the consequences; we will not fail to wield the big stick if we have to.” Following the setting up of the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led APC South South Reconciliation Committee, similar committees to tackle regional and state disputes are also likely to come on stream soon it was further gathered. Responding specifically to this issue, the Secretary of the CENCPC, Senator John Akpanudeodege, said, “Our National Chairman will give direction in this area.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 