Afeez Hanafi The death of Dapo Ojora, a socialite and brother-in-law of former Senate President Bukola Saraki, has generated controversies. While several online news platforms claimed that the polo buff shot himself dead, family sources said it was a case of accidental discharge. Dapo, one of the sons of the boardroom guru, Otunba Adekunle Ojora, was said to have shot himself in the head Friday evening, The Street Journal quoted sources as saying. The elder brother of Saraki’s wife, Toyin, had allegedly escaped death sometime ago when he had a ghastly power bike accident. The online newspaper reported that his death might be connected to the marital crisis with his wife, Patricia, a lawyer and an entrepreneur. They started having a strained relationship a few years ago and they both decided to go their separate ways for undisclosed reasons. “His marital woes were a huge blow to him especially because of the love he shared with his wife, Patricia. And much as he tried to put up a brave face, his marriage problems were too hard for him to handle as he couldn’t bear to lose his loving wife,” The Street Journal wrote. The couple, however, reconciled last year when they hosted the crème de la crème to the wedding of their daughter, Tara, in their family house in Ikoyi, Lagos. A former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, mourned Dapo’s death on Friday via his Twitter handle, @realFFK. He was, however, silent about the circumstances surrounding his death. Fani-Kayode wrote, “Devastated to hear about the passing of my brother Dapo Ojora just 9 years after we lost Gbegi his older brother. I knew Daps for 50 years & we played polo together. He was one of the kindest souls that I ever had the honour of being close to. He was a trailblazer! RIP brother.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  