Sodiq Oyeleke The Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, has cancelled the ongoing 2020 Chief of Army Staff’s Annual Conference after a participant tested positive for coronavirus. He also barred participants at the conference from attending the wedding of his son, Hamisu Buratai, scheduled for Friday. This was contained in two statements from the Acting Director Army Public Relations, Sagir Musa, on Thursday. In the first statement titled, ‘Cancellation of the remaining activities of Chief of Army Staff’s annual conference 2020’, Musa said the participant tested positive on Tuesday. He also said that all the participants had been mandated to immediately proceed on self-isolation. “The Nigerian Army wishes to inform members of the public that due to resurgence of COVID 19 Pandemic in the Federal Capital Territory Abuja in what appears to be a second wave of infection cycle and the unfortunate incident on Tuesday 8 December 2020, where an officer participating in the ongoing Chief of Army Staff’s Annual Conference 2020 here in Abuja tested positive to COVID 19, the remaining activities of the conference have therefore been immediately cancelled. READ ALSO: Nobody in charge in Nigeria – Soyinka “All the participants have been mandated to immediately proceed on self-isolation in line with the Federal Government’s protocol for COVID 19 and to prevent any further spread of the disease. “All inconveniences hereby regretted please. Thanks for your usual understanding and cooperation, please,” the statement read. In the second statement titled, ‘Scaling down of activities for the wedding Fatiha of Buratai’s son Mr Hamisu Tukur Buratai’, the Army spokesperson said participants at the COAS conference would not participate in the wedding. The statement added, “The Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen TY Buratai wishes to inform all dignitaries and other invited guests that activities earlier scheduled for the wedding of his son Mr Hamisu Tukur Buratai will proceed as arranged albeit pruned down without the participation of all those who were at the conference. “The Chief of Army Staff, on behalf of his family, feels honoured to sincerely appreciate, thank and welcome all dignitaries and invited guests to his son’s Wedding Fatiha slated for Friday, December 11, 2020. However, due to the resurgence of the Pandemic in the FCT, General Buratai will be unable to personally attend to, receive or meet you at the event. All inconveniences hereby regretted, please.”