Ife Ogunfuwa Crown Flour Mill Limited, a subsidiary of Olam Group, says it is committed to food fortification and will deliver Nigeria’s first vitamin premix facility. The company said the delivery was in line with the 90 per cent food fortification compliance target set at the penultimate edition of the Nigerian Food Processing and Nutrition Leadership Forum. The food manufacturer made this known at third annual gathering of the top players in the food industry in the country, held virtually on Thursday. Speaking at the forum on the firm’s commitment to participate in the Micronutrient Fortification Index, Managing Director, Crown Flour Mill Limited, Mr Ashish Pande, said improving the food fortification levels of staple foods was one agenda that Olam Grains was committed to, adding that sustainability was one of the key enablers of the company. He said, “Crown Flour Mills has established a state-of-the-art vitamin premix facility in Nigeria with technical support from the international non-profit, TechnoServe, under the Strengthening African Processors of Fortified Foods programme. “The goal is to prepare vitamin premix according to the regulatory requirement of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria and to supply Crown Flour plants with high quality and food-safe vitamin premix.” Participants at the forum emphasised commitment to meeting and scaling the grand target of ensuring that the over 180 million Nigerian population could access fortified foods that will aid their physical and mental development. They established a sustainability framework aimed at enforcing compliance through strict regulation and monitoring. TechnoServe’s West Africa Regional Director, Larry Umunna, said that if Nigeria was really serious about creating jobs, expanding its markets and growing its economy, nutrition and food systems should be put in the centre of the conversation. The forum, convened by the Aliko Dangote Foundation, in collaboration with TechnoServe and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, had in attendance Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo; and Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 