John Alechenu, Abuja The Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress has appointed a former National Chairman of the APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, as the chairman of its South-South reconciliation committee. This is coming on the heels of a meeting held by party stalwarts from the South-South, in Abuja on Tuesday with a view to reposition the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. The decision appointing Odigie-Oyegun was contained in a communique signed by the Secretary of the APC CENCPC, Senator John Akpan- Udo-Edehe and an APC chieftain from the region, Lucky Imasuen, after a meeting of the APC leaders at the Ladi Kwali Hall, Sheraton Hotel, Abuja, on Tuesday. The communique was made public on Wednesday. Other members of the reconciliation committee include Lucky Imasuen who was named as secretary, Chief Sunny Jackson, Dr Maryam Ali, Dr Sam Jaja, Senator Clever Ikisikpo and Chief Emmanuel Nsan. The communique read in part, “The meeting resolved that leaders must work together in harmony in the interest of the party and our people “The meeting condemned the divisions amongst the leaders and urged on the need to foster unity in the zone. “The meeting resolved to set up a committee of six persons of integrity to handle reconciliation and issues from the various states. “The meeting called on leaders to use the membership revalidation, and update exercise as a tool for ramping up our support base and fir unification of the party in the region.” Two Rivers State members of the House of Representatives: Chisom Dike and Ephraim Nwuzi, representing Elemetai, Oyigbo and Etche and Omuma federal constituencies respectively, were formally received into the party during the meeting. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 