Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Eight persons were said to have been killed in the Sanga and Lere local government areas of Kaduna State. Among the eight were six bandits killed by angry youths while bandits in turn killed a motorist and beheaded a commercial motorcyclist otherwise known as okada rider. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the incident, said the attacks took place on the Christmas eve. He said at Fadan Karshi in Sanga LGA, two bandits attacked a businessman and dispossessed him of money and other valuables. According to him, on receiving the distressed call, the military and police set out to the location. Aruwan, however, noted that on getting to the scene, some angry locals had already mobbed the bandits and burnt them to ashes. The commissioner said on Thursday night, bandits opened fire on motorists plying the Aboro-Kafanchan Road, in Sanga. He added, “The bullets hit one Richard Sabo who in the course of driving knocked down one of the bandits to death. Sadly, Sabo who suffered bullet wounds was confirmed dead at Gwantu General Hospital. “On a sad note, the government is in receipt of a report of the killing of a commercial motorcyclist, one Hudu Yahaya of Ungwan Nungu village of Sanga Local Government Area. He was beheaded by bandits who escaped with his motorcycle.” Similarly, he said in Lere, security agencies reported that some bandits from a neighbouring state who specialised in stealing livestock were also killed through mob action. Reports noted that, the bandits were chased and overpowered at Domawa village where three of them met their end in the hands of the mob. The commissioner said Governor Nasir El-Rufai had sent condolences to the families of Sabo and Yahaya and prayed for the repose of their souls. “The governor has also made a strong appeal to citizens to continue to have recourse to the law and not resort to jungle justice,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 