Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Chief Adanku Oyinlola, who is the head of Olobedu community in Osogbo, on Thursday, said some men of defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad led by one Supol Omoyele arrested him on trumped-up charges and detained him in four different cells. Giving testimony before the panel investigating police brutality in Osun State, Oyinlola said he was arrested by the SARS men, who at the time were attached to the Zone XI Police Command, Osogbo, on June 23, 2016. Oyinlola, who said the reason for his arrest was not disclosed to him, added that he was first detained at the Zone XI Command headquarters in Osogbo. He also claimed that his inability to pay N200,000 demanded for his release led to his transfer to the Ataoja Police Station, Osogbo, from where he was moved to Gbagi Police Station in Ibadan, Oyo State. He stated, “I was detained for two days at Zone XI before I was transferred to the Ataoja Police Station, Osogbo, where I spent another two days. Later, I was transferred to a cell in the Gbagi area, Ibadan, and I spent three days there. I did not eat any food until my third day in Ibadan. “I was later transferred to Abuja. I was handcuffed and the SARS officers inside the bus were smoking Indian hemp during the trip. “They extinguished the fire of the Indian hemp several times on my head till we got to Abuja. The IPO, Inspector Muyiwa, at the Abuja station collected my phone. My family paid N700,000 to officers Omoyele and Muyiwa. My wife was made to send recharge cards to other officers before I was eventually released without them pressing any charge against me.” He demanded the payment of N100,000 that Osun State High Court awarded him against the police as compensation for illegal detention and public apology that must be published in national dailies. Justice Akin Oladimeji asked the petitioner to provide evidence of the money given to the police and adjourned till January 14, 2021. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 