Joseph Olaoluwa Seafarers under the Nigeria Merchant Navy Officers and Water Transport Senior Staff Association have lamented poor remuneration due to the lack of a Collective Bargaining Agreement. The National President, NMNOWTSSA,  Bob Yousuo, disclosed this at the commissioning of its newly acquired national secretariat in Apapa Lagos. In his address, he called on seafarers to join either the union or the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria to ensure that the CBA arrangements were put in place before embarking on any voyage. According to him, the union under his administration would engage shipping companies and manning agents constructively to protect workers welfare packages, adding that the two unions were the only bodies recognised and gazetted by the Federal Government of Nigeria. He said, “This is the only recognised and constituted body by the Federal Government because if we are not gazetted, the International Transport Workers’ Federation will not be at this event, same goes for the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, and Trade Union Congress representative. “So let me sound it clear again that seafarers’ should join us or Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria so that we can take a strong position on issues affecting our sector.” He worried that some of the youths were misinformed about the profession instead of making a career out of the marine operations. He also decried the proliferation of fake certification by some groups, but reaffirmed that the union would continue to fight for the protection of seafarers’ with the right certification. Yousuo observed that some seafarers were underpaid due to fake certification because some employers were in need of cheap labour. The Director-General, NIMASA, Dr Bashir Jamoh, gave this warning at the seafarers’ event in Apapa. Jamoh who was represented at the occasion by Captain Kennedy Fiemotongha, said that the director-general of the apex maritime agency was doing his best to leave the agency better than he met it. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 