Daud Olatunji The police in Ogun State have arrested three suspects in connection with the abduction of four policemen at Aba Tuntun village, Ijebu-Igbo, in the Ijebu North Local Government Area of the state. Some hoodlums had reportedly waylaid a team of policemen in the village on Thursday, abducted four of them and shot a Divisional Police Officer who led the team. Sunday PUNCH gathered that trouble started after the policemen disarmed some hoodlums following a complaint by the village head that they were in possession of firearms. It was learnt that the traditional ruler had earlier petitioned the police, complaining that the hoodlums were using guns to terrorise villagers. Consequently, a team comprising policemen and vigilantes were said to have raided the village on Thursday. It was further gathered that six single-barrelled guns, 16 dane guns and 16 cartridges were recovered from some hoodlums arrested by the police. The suspects’ accomplices were said to have regrouped and ambushed the policemen as they were leaving the community. It was gathered that the DPO that led the team was shot in the arm while others sustained various gunshot injuries. A source in the village told our correspondent that four officers and three vigilantes were kidnapped by the hoodlums who reportedly went away with two AK-47 rifles, one pump action and one tear gas canister. The source added, “Those hoodlums earlier arrested by the police were set free during the attack while two vehicles belonging to the police were vandalised.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident on Saturday but said three of the four abducted officers had been rescued. He said efforts were ongoing to rescue one Constable Emmanuel Gene who was still being held captive by the hoodlums, adding that three suspects had been arrested. He said, “The incident occurred. The village head had petitioned the police that some hoodlums were in possession of weapons in the village. The DPO led his team to the place with vigilantes and recovered six single-barrelled guns, 16 dane guns, and 16 cartridges. They also arrested some suspects. “While taking the suspects and the weapons to the station, some hoodlums ambushed them and abducted four policemen. They shot the DPO in the arm and freed the suspects. “We have rescued three of the policemen abducted but we don’t know the whereabouts of the constable among them. We have arrested three suspects and they are helping us in the investigation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 