Leke Baiyewu, Abuja A bill seeking to give more powers to the Police Service Commission, including to take complaints, investigate and punish men of the Nigeria Police Force passed second reading at the House of Representatives on Tuesday. The Police Service Commission (Reform) Bill, which is a product of the recent protests against police brutality and human rights abuses, tagged #EndSARS, was introduced at the House on November 24. It is titled, ‘A Bill for an Act to Repeal the Police Service Commission Act and Enact the Police Service Commission Bill, 2020, to Strengthen the Commission to be More Functional in its Operations and for Related Matters.’ Chairman of the House Committee on Navy, Yusuf Gagdi; and Chairman, Committee on Implementation and Monitoring of the Legislative Agenda, Henry Nwawuba, co-sponsored the bill. The bill proposes creation of state offices for the commission to take public complaints and investigate allegations against men of the NPF. The House is also proposing that Special Units of the NPF to be created by the Inspector-General of Police are scrutinised and approved by the PSC. The commission, which is expected to have more stakeholders in its board, will also be empowered to set up panels to investigate policemen and recommend them for sanctions or prosecution. It is being proposed that the PSC will have the chairman and eight members, while the chairman will not be older than 55 and not be a member of a political party as of the time of appointment. READ ALSO: Reps suspend FG’s 774,000 jobs scheme Among the eight members will be a woman who has experience working in the area of sexual harassment and gender-based violence; a youth not older than 35, a retired police officer not below the rank of Commissioner of Police; a retired justice of either the Court of Appeal or Supreme Court; and a representative each from the National Human Rights Commission, Nigeria Bar Association, Independent Corrupt Practices (and Other Related) Offences Commission, and civil society organisation. The parliament is also proposing additional functions for the PSC, especially on investigation and prosecution of erring policemen. Leading the debate on the bill, Gagdi said the legislation seeks to reform the Nigeria Police Force by ensuring that the Police Service Commission is well placed to appoint and promote officers, ensure policy formulation for the guidance of officers, employ and train qualified individuals into the police force, and sanction erring officers, among others. Chairman of the House Committee on Defence, Babajimi Benson, stated that the bill would add value to the workings of the Nigeria Police. Chairman of the House Committee on Army, Abdulrazak Namdas, praised the spirit of the bill, which he said would address the legal tussle between the PSC and the Inspector General of Police on the issue of recruitment of personnel.