Dayo OjerindeSkipAds by A professor of paediatrics at the College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Chinyere Ezeaka, has said Nigeria loses more than 250,000 babies yearly to preventable and treatable causes. Ezeaka said this during the donation of neonatal equipment to LUTH by the Newborn Essential Solution and Technologies (NEST360°) to pilot referral health facilities in Nigeria. The expert who is also the Clinical Lead of the NEST 360° project said the Sustainable Development Goal of ending preventable newborn deaths by 2030 was achievable. “The cause of newborn deaths such as prematurity, infections, birth asphyxia and congenital abnormalities can be reduced with the wide-scale adoption of comprehensive newborn care, a standard of care available in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. “The country needs life-saving technologies, equipment and trained staff to manage preterm babies and newborns in distress to reduce the maternal mortality rate in the country,” she said. The Country Director, NEST360°, Dr Opeyemi Odedere, said the project would work with the Federal Ministry of Health to equip neonatal units in Nigerian hospitals with basic essential equipment that would be used for the proper management of newborns. Odedere said beyond the donation, they were training health workers, clinicians and biomedical engineers to be able to use and repair the equipment. According to him, the equipment donated were oxygen concentrators, Suction pump, Phototherapy light Flow Splitter Canta, Pulse Oximeter Bistos, Radiant Warmer and Bubble CPAP Pumani. The Chief Medical Director, LUTH, Prof. Chris Bode said the donations would save newborns, premature babies who might have perished from the lack of life-saving equipment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  