Matthew Ochei, Asaba Gunmen have reportedly abducted a 10-year-old boy, Chimeremezie Izu, at No. 5 Kelvin Street, Core Area 4, GRA, Asaba, the Delta State capital. PUNCH Metro gathered that the young boy was taken away from his mother after the armed robbers who broke into the apartment could not lay hands on cash and valuable items around 3:30 am on Wednesday. The mother of the boy, Mrs Joy Izu, told our correspondent that she was tied after they saw no reasonable amount of money in the house. She said, “The gunmen actually came to rob us but could not find cash and they took my only son away. I was asleep when I heard the sound of something, so I woke up and ran from my room to my children’s room around 3:37 am. “I saw them and I asked the children what happened, whether something fell down and they said nothing but I insisted that I heard something like a sound. What could that be? So, I heard another sound as I turned, I saw a flash of a torchlight beside the entrance door to my room. “So, I ran inside my room and started shouting ‘armed robber’, “please help me”. One of them came to the window of my room and asked me to shut up or he will shoot me. So, I ran into the toilet and I continued shouting but nobody came. Read also: Appeal Court nullifies Metuh’s conviction, orders fresh trial “Before I knew it, they were already on me. They came inside my room, brought me out of the toilet and they said I should bring the money. So, I pointed at one box and I said the money is inside and they ordered me to bring it down and I brought it down. “There was no money at home. Actually, I was trying to delay them to see if people can come to our rescue because I have shouted for help. I brought down about three to four bags to delay them in the process of searching for money. So, after everything, they beat me, they said I was deceiving them. “They collected my ATM card and forced me to give them a pin before taking my Android phone and collected the little money that was with me at home and they went to the children’s room. They saw their saving box, (pig bank) they broke it and they removed the whole money. They tied my face and asked me to lie down. “So, finally they carried my son and collected one of my phones and they asked me to call them this morning and they left.” Similarly, two persons were said to have killed inside their houses by unknown hoodlums who also took the area by  storm on Tuesday night. It was gathered that the victims were killed without anything taken from their apartment. The Police Public Relations Officer, Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed the killing but promised to get back to our correspondent on the kidnap. “Some people who were doing morning devotion were killed according to the report. I think whether they shot from the window and bullets touched two persons and they were rushed to the hospital but confirmed dead, but for kidnapping, I’m not aware for now,” Onovwakpoyeya said.