Peter Dada, Akure Speaker of the Ondo State Assembly, Mr. Bamidele Oloyeogun, on Monday said he didn’t disobey any court judgement ordering the reinstatement of three suspended lawmakers. Three lawmakers namely: Mr. Iroju Ogundeji, Mr. Adewale Williams and Mrs. Favour Tomomewo, were suspended by their colleagues over alleged gross misconduct. However, the state High Court ordered for their reinstatement. In response, the House filed for a stay of execution order which was dismissed by the Court of Appeal. The concerned lawmakers tried but failed to gain access into the assembly complex as legislative security officials stopped them at the entrance citing orders from the Speaker. The lawmakers returned to court and initiated contempt proceedings against the Speaker and three other members of the House. In a telephone interview with our correspondent, Oloyeloogun, said, “I confirm to you that as at today, no order for disobedience of court order has been served on me. “I know as fact  that the judgment of court delivered by the Ondo State High Court in respect of some suspended members of the Ondo State House of Assembly, has been appealed at the Court of Appeal, Akure Judicial Division and the main appeal is still pending before the Court “Motion on notice for stay of execution was also filed along with the Appeal. I was informed by counsel to the House of Assembly that one of the motions was struck out and that an appeal has been filed at the Supreme Court against the decision of the Court of Appeal. “Also, two motions withdrawn by counsel for defect on the face of the motion paper, have accordingly been refiled to enable the court hear all processes on merit. The appeals filed against the judgment are still pending and subsisting at the Court of Appeal.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com       