Nike Popoola The Ogun State Civil Service Commission has said it has conducted an entrance examination for over 200 applicants seeking employment into the state civil service, which includes state counsels and many others. It said this in a statement on Friday titled ‘Ogun CSC conducts entrance exams for state counsels, others’. The first phase of the examination in the public service was conducted by the Public Service Competitive Entrance Examination Board of the State Civil Service Commission at the Staff Development Centre, Abeokuta, it stated. Speaking during the exercise on Thursday, the chairman of the commission, Tokunbo Odebunmi, said the exercise was basically for those seeking employment into the post of state counsels and regularisation of the employees that came into the service through jobs portal. “Indeed, the examination is for those seeking employment into the state counsels and the outstanding employees that came on board through the job portal of the state. The process will be based on merit, not who knows who as they did before,” Odebunmi said. He stated that the commission was putting necessary measures in place to sustain the process by establishing an examination body, which would usually conduct entrance examination for the job seekers into the civil service in the state. He applauded the State Governor, Dapo Abiodun for his doggedness, resilience and steadfastness in ensuring that the welfare of the civil servants in the state was well catered for despite the present economic hardship and paucity of fund in the country. The statement said he noted that more graduates in the state would be employed whenever the vacancies were available, adding that the present administration was keen on reducing unemployment rate in the state. Speaking on behalf of the applicants, Tolu Onabolu appreciated the state government for the opportunity given to them, saying that it was a rare opportunity but a platform for them to practice their profession and deliver whatever assignment given to them. Also speaking on behalf of applicants employed through jobs portal, Joy Ogbodo and Olalekan Olayode, expressed gratitude for the advantage given to them to be part of civil servants in the state, promising to contribute their best to the development of the state and not to renege on their earlier promises. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 