Nike Popoola The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria has advised the government on the need to ensure effective use of taxpayers’ monies. The President, CITN, Olajumoke Simplice, spoke during the 43rd induction ceremony of the institute in Lagos. Simplice said this was also part of the highlights of its recent annual tax conference. She said, “The following specific policy directions and recommendations were proffered for the various taxation stakeholders, part of which I am espousing here. “The need for prudent management of taxpayers’ money by public officeholders to build trust among the citizens; performance-based budgeting to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the utilisation of government revenues; prioritising expenditure to intervene in critical sectors that will accelerate national economic growth and performance.” According to her, the use of tax incentives to attract foreign direct investment may not yield positive result but rather, widening the tax net to include informal sectors will be the best way going forward. “Government should come up with policies on tax incentives, and develop a systematic framework that will enhance the visibility of the incentives,” she said. At the event, the CITN president urged the inductees to exhibit professional expertise in their work as tax professionals. “The depth of your technical capacity confers greater respect and value on the institute by all those that deal with you,” she said. The Chairman of Membership and Professional Conduct Committee at the 43rd induction ceremony for new members, Rev. Ben Omonayajo, advised the inductees on integrity. He urged them to be impeccable in character, professional in service and to uphold the high ethics and values for which the CITN members were renowned. “That is the big hurdle that you must cross effortlessly in your daily practice of this profession,” he said. The Registrar, Chief Executive Officer, CITN, Mr Adefisayo Awogbade, urged the inductees to strive towards loftier goals, particularly by getting involved in the activities of the institute and through continuous self-development. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 