’Femi Asu and Okechukwu Nnodim Industrial customers and other entities receiving gas through the pipeline that was ruptured in Magboro, Ogun State, on Wednesday have seen supply cut off following the isolation of the affected section of the line. One of our correspondents gathered that the Nigerian Gas Marketing Company, a subsidiary of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, was the operator of the pipeline, a distribution line supplying gas majorly to industries. An NNPC official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the isolation of the ruptured part of the pipeline had disrupted supply to customers, especially manufacturing companies, in Ogun State and beyond. “If the repair team works very hard, the pipeline should come back on stream by tomorrow (Thursday),” he added. The NNPC had assured motorists and residents along the Magboro axis of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway of safety around the scene of the gas pipeline rupture in that area. The corporation’s spokesperson, Dr Kennie Obateru, said the pipeline break was caused by a construction company carrying out excavation work in the area, and resulted in gas leakage. He said in a statement issued in Abuja that the leakage was contained through the efforts of NNPC team, officials from the Lagos State Government, and other stakeholders. The statement also quoted the Managing Director of the Nigerian Gas Marketing Company, Mr Faruk Usman, as saying, “The impacted section of the pipeline has been isolated and the pipeline depressurised such that it poses no danger to the public.” The corporation urged members of the public to go about their duties normally as all safety measures had been put in place to avert any danger. It stated that repair work had commenced with a view to restoring gas supply as soon as possible. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 