John Alechenu, and Olufemi Olaniyi Governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress have, while wishing the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), a happy 78th birthday celebration, expressed confidence that he will lead Nigeria out of its current security challenges. This was contained in a statement titled: 78th Birthday Felicitation to President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR,” signed by the Chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum, Abubakar Bagudu, in Abuja, on Thursday. He said, the PGF joins the president and his family as well as Nigerians to celebrate the Nigerian leader’s 78th birthday. The statement read in part, “We acknowledge and commend your leadership, vision and commitment to a united prosperous Nigeria. Recognising all the difficult periods we face as a nation, we are confident under your leadership, we will be able to resolve our national security challenges and restore peace in every part of the country. “As we wish you a happy birthday and also say a big thank you for your selfless service to our dear country, we reaffirm our commitment to work under your leadership with the abiding faith and belief that the initiatives of our APC Federal Government will meet all the expectations of Nigerians. We are very proud of your patriotic leadership. You are our role model and a source of inspiration.” Meanwhile, the South West the Peoples Democratic Party in a statement titled 78th birthday:  Seek forgiveness for your misdeeds, S’ West PDP tells Buhari,” signed by the PDP Zonal Director of Publicity, Lere Olayika, wished the president a happy celebration but urged him to seek forgiveness from God for his past misdeeds especially against the people of the South West. Olayinka said, “God must have kept him so that he can have enough time to ruminate over his past misdeeds and seek restitution. He frustrated the progress of the South-West, abandoned the region when he was Chairman of the Petroleum Trust Fund under late General Sani Abacha and has done nothing for the region since 2015.” “The Metro line project was scrapped by Buhari at a loss of over $78 million to the Lagos tax payers. If Buhari had not cancelled that project, transportation in Lagos would have been better than it is now.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 