Dayo Ojerinde The National Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Sickle Cell Foundation, Dr Annette Akinsete, has urged Nigerians to support the fight against sickle cell disorder. Akinsete, at the unveiling of the Winner of Big Brother Naija Season 5, Olamilekan Agbeleshe, as the sickle cell global advocate, said it was unfortunate that many Nigerians do not encourage people living with sickle cell disorder. She said, “We need advocates, people to speak for sickle cell disorder. We noticed that everyone is silent about the disorder. We want people to be out there talking about the stigma and discrimination that we face in the sickle cell community. “We need to encourage people living with sickle cell, to tell them that they may have a sickle cell disorder but they can be anything they want to be.” Akinsete said the decision to make Agbeleshe the global ambassador for the sickle cell foundation was to encourage other people who were living with the disorder. “Making ‘Laycon’ sickle cell ambassador is to tell people that they can achieve a lot for themselves irrespective of their health challenge. Despite having sickle cell disorder, he has achieved a lot for himself. We want him to give voice to the voiceless. Nigeria has the highest burden of sickle cell in the world, so there is the need for Nigerians to be in the forefront in the fight against sickle cell disorder,” she said. Responding, Agbeleshe said he never allowed what people say affect him, adding that it was wrong for people to look down on people living with sickle cell disorder. He said, “I’ve never been the type that gets worried about what people say to me. I disconnect myself from a whole lot of things; it is wrong when people look down on sickle cell patients because of their health status. Living with sickle cell disorder is not the end of the world.” ,Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 