Daniels Igoni Yenagoa The absence of the judge presiding over a Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, Justice Abimbola Awogboro on Tuesday, stalled the hearing of a suit filed by some Ijaw leaders challenging bidding rounds for marginal oilfields located in their areas. The court officials subsequently fixed February 19, 2021 for the hearing of the suit with number PHC/YEN/CS/81/2020. The Ijaw leaders comprising Brown Agu (Opu Agu VIII), Mrs Rosemary John-Oduone, President Ijaw Women Connect and Mr Femowei Friend had approach the court asking it to stop licensing for the marginal oilfields, pending the determination of the case. But the absence of the presiding judge stopped the case from being heard. The suit by the trio on behalf of the Ijaw ethicality was also praying the court to restrain Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Minister Petroleum Resources and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources from causing the licensing to hold. In motion on notice, the plaintiffs were further “seeking an order restraining the defendants/respondents from further advertising or receiving bids in respect of marginal fields pending the hearing and determination of this suit with Suit No.PHC/YEN/CS/81/2020.” They also want the court “to restrain the defendants/respondents from giving out/approving licence in respect of the marginal fields listed,” pending the hearing and determination. The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) had on April 6, 2020 announced the revocation of 11 of the 13 marginal fields licences it issued to indigenous oil firms. Oil Mining Lease (OML) 46 held by Bayelsa State Government is located within onshore swamps in Bayelsa, and won in 2013 through a bidding process conducted by the DPR, was among the licences revoked for being dormant for more than five years. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 