Temiloluwa O’Peters In a bid to improve the free flow of traffic across the metropolis, the Lagos State Government has issued a seven-day removal notice to communities with unapproved street gates in the state. The Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, who issued the notice on Friday, said this is with a directive to either leave such gates open between 5 a.m and midnight or have them dismantled. He explained that the gates and structures installed without prior approval from the Ministry of Transportation contravene the provisions of the State Traffic Laws and Regulations and must therefore be removed within seven days of the given notice. Oladeinde stressed that the ministry, in conjunction with Local Government and Community Affairs, had the regulatory authority on the installation of gates towards enhancing traffic management on the inner roads, while protecting the lives and property of the affected communities. He said, “During the recent inspection exercise conducted by the officials of the Ministry of Transportation, it was discovered that some communities have sited gates on some inner roads to avoid vehicular movement on their streets. “This unruly act has contributed to the heavy traffic congestion currently being experienced on our roads on daily basis.” The Commissioner further announced that while it was expected that all street gates across the state be opened between 5 am to 12 midnight, the gates must be manned by security personnel engaged by the community or residents’ association. He added that it must also be opened for emergency services such as police, ambulance and fire services at any time. Oladeinde revealed that the Special Committee set up by the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation on demolition of gated streets had begun enforcement exercise on the removal of gates in locations that failed to comply with the government’s directive on ‘Gated Streets’ regulation. He, therefore, urged communities with government approval for installation of gates on their streets to come forward with their documents for onward review and necessary approvals, failure of which the Special Committee would remove such street gates. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 