Ada Wodu, Calabar The Cross River State Police Command has arrested a three-man robbery gang and recovered a 2018 Corolla Toyota worth over N8m. PUNCH Metro gathered that the operation, which was carried out by the Anti-Kidnapping/Cultism Team, tracked the gang from Calabar to Uyo in Akwa Ibom State, where they were arrested after robbing their victim in his house and taking away his car. They had already put up the car for sale for N1m at a car stand in Uyo, before the police team arrested them. The Cross River State Commissioner of Police, Abdulkadir Jimoh, told journalists on Tuesday that the police were determined to rid the state of all forms of crime and criminality. He said, “In line with our open door policy as it concerns information sharing by giving the people feedback as well as carrying the people of Cross River State along  in our progress and achievement, we have just apprehended a notorious robbery gang which specialises in robbing filling stations and snatching cars. “After robbing their victim in Calabar, they took his 2018 Toyota Corolla, which cost over N8m to a car stand at Uyo without knowing that we were tracking them. “They were intercepted at about 12midnight Tuesday. We arrested them and brought them back to Calabar and they all confessed to the crime and will be charged to court immediately investigation is concluded.” One of the suspects, 28 year old Francis Archbong, said he did not know the value of the car and that was why they wanted to sell it for N1m. “We needed cash urgently. I used to be a carpenter, but I became a driver to make quick cash. “The car was handed over to me by Etete, so I drove it to Akwa Ibom to sell it there. But to tell you the truth, I did not know the car was up to N8m,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 