Temiloluwa O’Peters    SkipAds by In its commitment to make the growth of the small and medium scale enterprises its primary focus, SunTrust Bank gave out N23.96bn as loans and advances to the sector in 2019. This information was contained in the bank’s annual report, made available to our reporter on Saturday. The Chairman, Olanrewaju Shittu, while addressing shareholders at the bank’s fourth Annual General Meeting in Lagos, noted that the bank had been able to increase its balance sheet by 24.61 per cent from N43.97bn to N54.79bn. The Managing Director and Chief Executive of the bank, Halima Buba, reiterated the commitment of the bank to the growth of the nation’s economy through effective funding of the real sector. She noted that the bank had increased loans and advances by 185.41 per cent from N8.4bn to N23.96bn. “I am assuring you that we will surely do more because we are committed to the growth of the real sector, knowing fully well that, that is the only means to ensure effective growth and development of our nation’s economy,” she said. Delighted that customers had significantly increased their deposit to the bank to the tune of N25.7bn, an increase of 38.03 per cent, Buba assured that as the bank grew, more funds would be set aside for corporate social responsibility. She said, “The bank increased the headcount to ensure increased business growth higher than previous year. This, amongst others, caused increase in customer deposits compared with previous year by 38.03 per cent from N18.64bn to N25.73bn and a growth in the bank’s total assets from N43.97bn to N54.79bn.” Sounding very optimistic about the future, the MD/CEO said the bank would take advantage of opportunities presented in the coming financial year to improve earnings, profitability and asset quality with. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 