Maiharaji Altine, Gusau The new commissioner of police posted to Zamfara state, Alhaji Abutu Yaro, has vowed to end banditry and kidnappings that have crippled the socio-economic development of the state. Addressing journalists in Gusau today, CP Abutu said after a careful study of the security challenges in the state which included cattle rustling, armed banditry, reprisal attack, kidnapping/abduction, culpable homicide, and farmers/herders clash, he designed a blueprint to tackle the menace. He said, “On my assumption of duty, I came up with a vision and mission under my operational strategies “ZAMFARA FIRST” which means working hand in hand with the host communities to promote peace, security, and safety of Zamfara State through dedication, commitment, and professionalism. “This I designed after a careful study of the security challenges that are prevalent in the State that include cattle rustling, armed banditry, reprisal attack, kidnapping/abduction, culpable homicide, and to some extent farmers/herders clash.” To achieve the desired objective, CP Abutu said, “My management team and I have commenced the review of the existing crime prevention methodologies so that we can meet up with the challenges of modern-day policing. “Our combat readiness, determination, and total commitment towards onslaught against vicious crimes in partnership with the state government, traditional rulers, community, and religious leaders will be greatly improved and sustained.” He maintained that the strategy would also be an intelligence-led community policing that transcends law enforcement to embrace human security and development services. The CP said, “Our policing has to be driven by the foreknowledge and guided by intelligence at strategic, operational, and tactical levels.” He stressed that the policing must be proactive, preventive in orientation, and conducted within the context of public ownership, partnership, participation, problem-solving, and community support with mainstream human security. He assured members of the public that the police under his watch would discharge their responsibilities in line with the professional ethics of the force. He however warned that human right violation, corrupt practices, and other unprofessional conduct will not be tolerated. The commissioner appealed for continued support, cooperation, and collaboration from all and sundry through giving useful and timely information to the police on activities of criminal elements for prompt action.