Ade Adesomoju, Abuja A youth leader of the All Progressives Congress in Abia State, Kalu Agu, has asked the Federal High Court in Abuja to stop the planned National Executive Committee of the party slated to hold on December 8. Agu, through his lawyer, Ukpai Usurp, urged the court not to allow the NEC meeting to hold until the final resolution of his suit challenging the legality of the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee. He is also challenging the legality of the constitution of the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee led by Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni. The notice for the NEC meeting was issued by Akpan Udoedehe in his capacity as the secretary of the party’s Buni-led caretaker committee. Agu’s application challenging the legality of the committee’s power to schedule the APC’s NEC meeting, came days after a former National Vice Chairman of the party, Hilliard Eta, instituted a suit before the same court seeking similar prayers. Agu, a lawyer, on Thursday filed his application seeking a court order voiding and setting aside the notice issued for the NEC meeting, arguing that Udoedehe lacked the power to issue it. In a 69-paragraph affidavit filed in support of the motion, Agu, faulted the dissolution of Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee of the party via a resolution passed by the NEC at the Presidential Villa on June 25, 2020. The plaintiff therefore asked the court to bar the caretaker committee from convening any NEC meeting for APC until all issues relating to the legality or otherwise of the dissolution of the Oshiomhole-led NWC were fully resolved. Justice Taiwo Taiwo fixed Friday for the hearing of the application. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 