The year 2020 has been a tough one for many. At the peak of quarter 1, the entire nation went into a compulsory lockdown, forcing many businesses to shut down; several going bankrupt and others shedding staff weight to stay afloat. As though the pandemic was not devastating enough, weeks ago many businesses fell victim to the vandalization, arson, destruction of properties and looting of valuables that took place after the #EndSARS protest turned violent. Despite all these, business owners still have to deal with the issues that came with the month of festivities. December is prime season of all festivities. It is one of the busiest months of the year for retailers to make quick sales, as more people make myriads of purchases to commemorate the holidays with friends and families. The season is synonymous with gifting, hampers, parties, reunions, holiday travels, raves, name it. So, while the world celebrates by spending, you the entrepreneur must take advantage to do a brisk business. Depending on your sales strategy, you can offer price discounts so that you gain from the increased sales volume among other means. But then, with the hustling and bustling, profits and benefits of this month come the risk of accidents and damages to goods and financial health. Unfortunately, it would also be a busy season for criminals and thieves who target retail stores and shopping centres due to the large crowd that different stores receive at this time. Retailers can see their holiday revenues diminish significantly by the activities of these criminal elements if nothing is done to forestall such incidences. There are also other severe incidences like robbery, vandalism, personal accidents, harmattan-fueled fire outbreaks, building collapse and other misfortunes that are related to this season. Fortunately, there are several ways business owners can be better protected at these times: Install fire alarms: Fire alarms are smoke detectors installed to timely detect when coverage areas are about to experience a fire outbreak due to gas explosion, fireworks, electrical malfunctions, and other causes of the fire accident. These alarms usually produce sharp signals in the form of a sound of a car horn, siren, or buzzer as an alert to people around to take action. With the fire alarm system and a prompt reaction, a fire incident can be nipped in the bud. Install cameras: One of the most significant controls to averting criminal occurrences are video monitoring systems, known as closed-circuit television (CCTV). Security experts recommend that live feeds from CCTV installed cameras can forewarn of a security breach on the property. Such proactiveness can significantly reduce the likeliness of unpalatable outcomes from robbery or civil commotion. The system also gives a higher chance of apprehending criminals as security officials can use video cameras to pinpoint faces, voices, and other forms of identification. Light up the environment: This season comes with changes in the weather with darkness setting in earlier than normal. This kind of condition allows criminals a longer period to perpetuate their nefarious activities under cover of the dark. Security experts advise you to install security or perimeter lighting outside your property to avert this kind of unsavory outcome. Having your surrounding areas lit-up makes it a less inviting place for criminals, and a safe place for you, your customers, and workers. Get an Insurance: All these proactive installations are robust security architecture that can help with your protection. However, the reality is that they are not fool-proof. So, what happens when the security is breached, and you lose your investment and assets? This is where insurance comes in with an assurance of restitution for any loss incurred. If you have your business, the content of your property or assets insured, an insurance company will pay compensation for any damages or items stolen. Leadway Assurance Company, a foremost insurer that has been insuring the happiness of individuals and businesses for five decades is the insurer to partner with. They have designed several insurance products that provide succour to businesses when push comes to shove. One of these products is the Leadway Boss, otherwise known as L-Boss. It is designed to help protect small and medium-size businesses against various risks of damages to your business premises and their contents, including your official vehicles. This policy also covers the medical expenses incurred on an employee who gets hurt as a direct result of a workplace accident. Interestingly, this medical cover extends to your visitors who may suffer injury or loss in your premises. And should the affected visitor elects to take legal actions against you, the policy will cover your litigation. Amazing right? To find out more about L-Boss, call Leadway Assurance professional advisors via its virtual communication channels – 012800700, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from our experienced advisors by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me