Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The South-West Zonal Caretaker Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party has reversed the suspension of five Ondo State chieftains of the party, saying it fell short of laid down procedures. Southwest PDP Caretaker Committee Secretary, Daisi Akintan, in a letter dated 28th December, 2020, said that the five members: Chief Oyedele Ibini, Lad Ojomo, Mr. Ayo Fadaka, Rasheed Elegbeleye and Ebenezer Alabi, were arbitrarily suspended by the Ondo State Working Committee on December 22. In the letter, made available to journalists, in Ado Ekiti, on Tuesday by the PDP Zonal Caretaker Committee Publicity Secretary, Lere Olayinka, the party called for restraint. The party urged all party members in the state to allow the Senator Bukola Saraki-led National Reconciliation Committee “look into all grievances and assuage same among members.” According to the letter, the five party leaders were neither queried nor given a fair hearing before their suspension by the SWC hence the intervention of the zonal executive. READ ALSO: I never called for a coup against Buhari, says Kukah It read in part, “Consequent upon the above, the Committee diligently considered their appeals severally, and relying on Section 57(6), which states that ‘any decision taken against a member who has not been informed of the charges against him or has not been given any opportunity of defending himself, shall be null and void.’ “It was confirmed that they were arbitrarily suspended by the SWC without any preliminary hearing as demanded by the Constitution. Therefore, this action falls short of procedures as laid down by the party’s Constitution. “In exercising its powers as stated in Section 61(2), the Zonal Caretaker Committee has therefore set aside their purported suspension from the party forthwith.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 