Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senate ad hoc Committee on Constitution Review has set up sub-committees to review the reports of the 2014 National Conference and that of the Governor Nasir el-Rufai-led All Progressives Congress Committee on True Federalism. Both reports recommended restructuring which requires fiscal federalism, devolution of power and creation of an additional state in the South-East geopolitical zone, among others. The sub-committees would also review all the bills passed in previous National Assemblies and constitutional-related reports. Deputy Senate President and Chairman of the Committee, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, disclosed this when the panel, inaugurated since February 26, held its second meeting on Thursday evening. Our correspondent, who was at the meeting noted that the sub-committees were mandated to study the documents, the recommendations contained therein and advised the panel appropriately. In his remarks, Omo-Agege said, “We have had a lot of constitution review exercises, during which some bills were passed in the Senate but died in the House, some were passed in both chambers but did not receive presidential assent. “We need the sub-committees to look into these bills and advise us as to why they failed, their prospects of being reconsidered and passage.” He named Senator Gershom Bassey, as Chairman of the sub-committee to review the el-Rufai report on restructuring, while Senator Kashim Shettima would head the panel to study the 2014 confab report. Former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, is to chair the sub-committee reviewing the status and updates of previous constitution amendments exercise. The panel to review the current constitution amendment bills in the 9th Senate would be chaired by Senator Smart Adeyemi. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 