Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Ex-governor of Lagos State, Senator Bola Tinubu, and the former interim chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Bisi Akande, on Thursday, met Osun state governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, and his predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola, behind closed door. The meeting, which started around 12:00 pm, was held in the Ila residence of Akande. The meeting may not be unconnected with the crisis between Oyetola and Aregbesola. Before the meeting, there was tension over Aregbesola’s plan to attend a political programme holding the same day with Oyetola’s second anniversary celebrations on Friday, November 27. However, the organisers, Osun State caucus of the National Assembly, cancelled the public lecture over the accusation that the event was meant to insult the state Governor, Gboyega Oyetola. Both Aregbesola and Oyetola have refrained from public comments on their seeming strained relationship. Announcing his arrival, the Minister of Interior said he was in the state to begin Stakeholders’ Engagement Meeting as directed by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). He also attached the pictures of his visitation to Akande, alongside Oyetola. The minister tweeted, “Earlier today, I arrived at the @StateofOsun with my entourage from the @MinofInteriorNG to begin my Stakeholders’ Engagement Meeting with different stakeholders in the state as directed by President @MBuhari. “Our entourage paid a courtesy visit to our leader and father, Baba Bisi Akande, alongside Governor of the @StateofOsun, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola in Ila Orangun. Baba advised us on #EndSARS and insecurity amongst other issues!” READ ALSO: Terrorism in Nigeria may continue till 2040, Buratai warns Aregbesola earlier explained that the Stakeholders’ Engagement on Internal Security and Conflict Resolution is aimed at strengthening peace and security in the aftermath of the destruction across the country. He said the Ministry of Interior engaged in consultations with the State Government, traditional rulers, civil society groups, religious institutions and youth groups on the need to adopt dialogue as a key approach in channeling grievances and resolving conflicts.