Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The family of Emmanuel Gene, a police constable attached to the Ogun State Police Command, has blamed a Divisional Police Officer, Kazeem Solatan, for his disappearance. They also faulted the police command over its failure to rescue their family member. Hoodlums had attacked some policemen in Ijebu-Igbo on December 1. The gang was also reported to have abducted four policemen and shot Solatan in an attack on the security operatives at Aba Tuntun, a community in Ijebu-Igbo, in the Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State. It was claimed that the traditional ruler of the community had earlier petitioned the police, complaining that some people in his domain were in possession of firearms, which they used to terrorise the villagers. Acting on the petition, a joint team of 15 officers and 35 local vigilantes reportedly raided the community in search of the weapons. The security officers were, however, waylaid by the hoodlums on their way out of the community. In the ensuing attack, three of the four policemen were abducted and were later rescued, but the constable remained in the custody of the hoodlums. About 10 days after the incident, the whereabouts of the constable remained unknown. His family, in a petition to the state Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, a copy of which was made available to journalists on Thursday, said the DPO had actually led his men, including Emmanuel, to disperse land grabbers in Aba Tuntun, where they were attacked. The family said what happened was in sharp contrast to the claim of the DPO that he was invited to disperse hoodlums terrorising the area with firearms. The petition, which was signed by the family counsel, Oluwaseyi Awodele, read in part, “The Divisional Police Officer, SP Kazeem Solatan, led a team of police officers from a division to a venue to prevent trespass to land by some land grabbers at Aba Tuntun in Ijebu-Igbo, where the police were attacked by the said land grabbers and many police officers sustained injuries. “It was part of our brief that the land grabbers, who were with weapons, chased the police team to different parts. It was later at the police station that they discovered that Emmanuel Gene had not been found since he could not return from the scene of the attack. “However, with the seriousness of the incident, coupled with the disappearance of an officer, the divisional police officer kept silent and no action was taken until the fourth day. It was due to the serious pressure mounted by our clients that the DPO now informed our clients of the recovery of the personal phone of PC Emmanuel Gene, and the gun he carried to the operation with a faulty claim that Emmanuel Gene was kidnapped. “This claim by the DPO was faulty and not acceptable to the family, having known the facts of the case. It was gathered that the DPO collected a certain amount of money from his own ‘client’ to help them recover the land on which he took his officers to.” The father of the missing officer, Jimoh Gene, said the DPO was being economical with the truth when he told the Commissioner of Police that the incident happened on December 3 when it actually happened on December 1. The father told our correspondent that his son’s wife, Comfort, was pregnant, wondering how she would cope without her husband. “We passionately urge you to use your authority as the chief security officer of the state to urgently look into the matter and put machineries in place to fetch out PC Emmanuel Gene alive,” he added. Reacting, the state police spokesman, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the command was on top of the situation. He said, “If that statement was actually made, it was an unfortunate statement from whoever made it. There is no way a police officer will be missing and the command will fold its arms and do nothing. “If we can go all out to look for any member of the public that goes missing, how much more of our own personnel, that we will now fold arms and be watching?” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 