Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin An Edo High Court sitting in Benin has declared as illegal the suspension of Mr Aremiyan Momoh as the Chairman of the Etsako East Local Government Area of the state. The court, presided over by Justice D. I. Okungbowa, on Friday, delivered the judgement in the case with suit no: B/205/2019. Momoh had been suspended from office by Governor Godwin Obaseki over alleged corrupt practices in September 2019. But while delivering the judgment, Okungbowa declared the action of the governor as null and void and directed that Momoh be reinstated immediately. The judge held that the state government failed to comply with the provisions of Sections 20 and 21 of the Edo State Local Government Law, 2000 (as amended) in failing to consult with the Edo State House of Assembly as provided by law before suspending Momoh. The court further held that since the purported suspension was void in law, every other action predicated on it was invalid and awarded the sum of N250, 000 as costs in favour of Momoh. It also dismissed the notice of preliminary objection filed by the state government challenging the competence of the suit. Okungbowa also granted all the prayers contained in the originating summons filed on behalf of Momoh by his legal representative, West-Idahosa & Co. Obaseki had suspended Momoh from office for a period of two months over allegations of misappropriation of funds and low revenue generation. The suspension followed a petition signed by 10 councillors on several allegations of fraud. They alleged that the Momoh claimed to have spent N7m on Sallah gifts, as against N2m that was spent, and failure to remit N67m collected from trucks loading cement from BUA Cement Company in Okpella. He was also alleged to have spent N10m on empowerment, N36m for grading of roads, N8m for security during cult clashes and N16m for Christmas gifts. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  