Joseph Olaoluwa Emirates has announced the appointment of regional managers in its Dubai hub and across key markets in the Far East, West Asia and Africa. The essence, according to an email forwarded to our correspondent, is to create commercial strategies as the airline responds to the complex challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The statement said that Afzal Parambil, who is currently the Regional Manager West Africa, will take on the role of Regional Manager South Africa; Paulos Legesse, currently Manager Ivory Coast, will become the Manager for Nigeria; Christophe Leloup, currently Manager Senegal, will become Manager Kenya; while Cathrine Wesley, Country Manager Ghana, will support Ivory Coast in addition to her current role. Also, Arpit Behl, Country Manager Guinea, will support Senegal in addition to his current role. Similarly, Satish Sethi, currently Country Manager Philippines, will become Manager Japan; Salem Al Marri, currently Manager Japan, will return to Dubai to the airline’s Strategic Planning Department. Reacting to the appointments, Emirates’ Chief Commercial Officer, Adnan Kazim, was quoted to have said, “As Emirates works through the complexities of this challenging period, we are sharpening our focus further and placing extremely capable leaders with diverse experiences to help drive commercial initiatives that stimulate demand and maximise revenue opportunities and margin performance. “I am also proud of our United Arab Emirates nationals, who are well-placed to support the commercial organisation at this critical time as we continue to build sustained momentum, restore our network foothold, and ramp up our operations to position the airline for a strong recovery.” Just recently, the airline welcomed a new aircraft, the Airbus A380 to its 2020 fleet. It explained that the A380 was powered by a blend of jet fuel and sustainable aviation fuel. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  