43-year-old Kazeem Ahmed will not forget March 6, 2019 in a hurry. It was a day the commercial bus driver who is also a bread pan manufacturer lost his right leg in a motor accident along the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. The Kwara State indigene said life has been tough for him and his family since the incident, but has refused to give up, having been told by his doctor that he could walk again if he could procure a prosthetic leg. The father-of-three who is currently on crutches says he desires to walk again through the aid of an artificial leg, but he can’t afford it. Narrating his ordeal, Ahmed said, “I manufacture bread pans. I am also a commercial bus driver. Whenever there is low sales, I use my bus for commercial purposes. “I ply Iyana Oworo-Mowe route. So, on the 6th of March 2019 when business was slow, I decided to operate my bus for commercial purpose. “So, I carried passengers from Mowe to Iyana Oworo. While approaching Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries along the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, my vehicle developed a mechanical fault, I parked to find out what the problem was. “When I opened the bonnet, an oncoming Sienna bus hit me from the back and broke my right leg. “The accident happened around 1:00pm and the driver blamed it on brake failure.  So, I was rushed to a hospital at Mowe for treatment. “I received three pints of blood because, according to the doctor, I had lost a lot of blood and my packed cell volume was 10 percent. “Later, the doctor told me that they would call an orthopaedic surgeon from Sagamu for a surgery on my leg. I was billed N400,000 for the operation. “A week thereafter, the operation was carried out. I was told that after 41 days, the stiches would be removed and that I would start walking with the leg gradually with support of crutches. Wound started smelling, oozing out pus “But two weeks after the operation, the wound started smelling. It started bringing out pus. The doctor told me that I needed some injections. “So, he placed me on an injection for one week. I spent N7,500 on each of the seven days. But after the seven days elapsed, I did not see any result. “The wound was still smelling, with pus still oozing out of it. So, after managing my leg for two months with over N1m, the doctor told me that the leg had to be amputated.” But Ahmed’s family objected to the doctor’s advice;they advised him to visit traditional bone setters. Seven months in traditional bone setter’s home “So, I was admitted at a traditional bone setter’s facility in Osun State. The man told me that he could handle it. “He assured me that the leg would not be amputated. Unfortunately, after spending over seven months, there was no positive result. Instead, the leg became bad even after I had spent over N3m there. “In fact, I was the one that discharged myself when I saw that nothing had changed and the wound was getting worse. The bone setter pleaded with me to be patient with him, but I was done. From bone setter to Igbobi “From  there, I relocated to the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos,” Ahmed said. Continuing, he said, “At Igbobi, the doctors told me that I had 50-50 chance of walking again. “They, however, gave me two options. The first was that they could manage the leg for five to six years but that it would cost me between N20m and N30m. The caveat:  there was no guarantee of walking with the leg. “The second option was that they would  amputate the leg and I could walk with an artificial leg. I then chose the amputation of the leg because I did not have N20m or N30m to manage it; more so, there is no guarantee that I can walk with it again. “My leg was amputated on July 28, 2020. I spent three weeks at Igbobi and the cost of the surgery was N215,000. Before I was discharged, the doctor told me to prepare to get a prosthesis to enable me walk independently.” Prosthetic leg sold for N800,000 But if Ahmed thought that getting a prosthetic leg was a walk in the park, he soon knew better. “When my wife checked the price of prosthetic leg at Igbobi, it was N800,000. I can’t afford it, though I really need the prosthetic leg to continue with my bread pan making business since I cannot drive anymore. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 