Angela Onwuzoo Report  by the Global Health Expenditure Database 2018 published by the World Health Organisation has shown that Nigeria may not achieve universal health coverage as out-of- pocket payment for healthcare peaks at 76.6 percent. The report shows that Nigeria’s expenditure on healthcare has not significantly improved over the years despite the Federal Government’s pledge to achieve  universal health coverage by 2030. Experts say meeting the goals of universal health coverage can only be achieved when access to health services and financial risk protection are equitably addressed. Equitable financial protection, they say, means that everyone, irrespective of their level of income, is free from financial hardship caused by accessing needed health services. But the WHO report shows that out-of-pocket spending continues to be a major component of health spending in low- and middle-income countries like Nigeria. The WHO defines out-of-pocket payments as direct payments made by individuals to health care providers at the time of service use. It warned that unregulated direct charges often constitute a major access barrier to needed health care and contribute to high out-of-pocket payments, generating problems of financial protection. According to peer-reviewed online journal The Lancet, about 70 percent of Nigerians are living in poverty, and out-of-pocket payments can make households and individuals incur catastrophic health expenditure and this can exacerbate the level of poverty. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire had,last year, reiterated Federal Government’s commitment to scaling up UHC in the country through the National Health Insurance Scheme. “This is to ensure the attainment of UHC and to address human resources gap in the facilities we have,”  Ehanire had said. The WHO report notes that health spending (percentage Gross Domestic Product) for 2017 in Nigeria was 3.76 per cent, while that of 2018 was 3.89 per cent. Out-of- pocket payment for healthcare in 2017, according to the report, was 77.22 per cent, while that of 2018 stood at 76.6 per cent. For health spending per capita, the report put that of 2017 at $81.41, while that of 2018 was $83.75. Findings by PUNCH HealthWise showed that Nigeria has not been able to meet the 2001 Abuja Declaration by African leaders and the World Health Organisation’s stipulation to allocate at least 15 per cent of yearly national budgets to health. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 