The Federal Government says the call, in some quarters, for the resignation of the President, Major Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over the recent killing of farmers in Borno State by Boko Haram terrorists is “cheap and irresponsible”. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, during a meeting on Thursday in Lagos, said the calls amounted to playing dirty politics with the issue of security. The minister said, “In the wake of the killing, there have been calls in some quarters for Mr President to resign. “Well, let me say here that this call amounts to playing dirty politics with the issue of security, and it is cheap and irresponsible “Mr. President was elected in 2015 for a four-year term and re-elected in 2019 for another four-year term. “No amount of hysterical calls for resignation will prevent him from serving out his term.” Mohammed said before the President assumed office, Boko Haram could stroll into any city, especially in the north, to carry out deadly attacks. He said Abuja, the nation’s capital, Kano, Maiduguri, Jos, Damaturu were regularly targeted while motor parks, churches, mosques, shopping complexes were not spared. “Therefore, calling on the President to resign every time there is a setback in the war on terror is a needless distraction and cheap politicking. “Let us stop playing politics with the issue of security,’’ he said. The minister reiterated the position that “Boko Haram is today badly degraded and can only carry out cowardly attacks like the one against defenseless farmers over the weekend’’. He said no nation, no matter how powerful, is immune to attacks on soft targets. “For instance, 9-11 happened despite the prowess of the most powerful army in the world. “Boko Haram’s only oxygen today is publicity. That’s why they have rushed to release a video claiming responsibility for the killing of the farmers. “Please note that that video was shared to instill fear in the civil populace and maintain relevance in the eyes of their sponsors,’’ he said. NAN