Leke Baiyewu, Abuja THE House of Representatives has said the lawmaker representing Billiri/Balanga Federal Constituency in Gombe State, Victor Mela, will remain a member of the chamber despite his conviction by a Chief Magistrates’ Court in Zone 6, Wuse, Abuja. The court had on Tuesday last week convicted Mela for lying on oath in his Form CF001 submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission as a candidate in the 2019 general elections. The chief magistrate had convicted the lawmaker in a case instituted against him by the police. The magistrate had, however, deferred the sentencing of the lawmaker. Mela, while reacting to the development, had said he would immediately file an appeal against the court’s decision, adding that he would continue to keep his legislative seat and discharge his duties. When asked on Wednesday why Mela should still be allowed to carrying with legislative duties after his conviction, the Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Benjamin Kalu, said, “I’m quite aware of the situation of Victor Mela, who was convicted by a lower court of jurisdiction. “You are aware that we have hierarchy of courts in our democracy. You’re aware of the principle of natural justice, which is ‘let both parties be heard’. The question becomes, ‘Does he have an appealable right?’ “The answer is yes. And if the answer is yes, has that right been exercised? If it is yes, what is the outcome of such exercised right? If it has not been exercised, the question becomes, ‘Is it not an injustice to condemn a man that has not been condemned by the hierarchy of courts?’ “So, Victor Mela remains a member of the House until the matter is discharged by appellate courts available to him, in his exercise of his rights to be fairly heard. Until then, he has not been removed from the House.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com