Adelani Adepegba, Abuja THE troops of Operation Hadarin Daji have rescued 10 persons abducted by suspected bandits at Yenyewa village in Zamfara State. The victims were reportedly liberated by the troops of Operation Hadarin Daji on December 20 and reunited with their families. Disclosing this at a media briefing on the ongoing military operations across the country on Thursday, the Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj. Gen. John Enenche, said the troops also eliminated a bandit and arrested two others while on night patrol at Bakinruwa Riverside in the Shinkafi Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Enenche stated, “As you are aware, all 344 students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, who were abducted by bandits were rescued alive. Similarly, troops rescued 39 abducted Islamiya children (girls) returning from Maulud programme, at Nguwar Al-Kasim in Dandume Local Government Area of Katsina State. “Also, on December 20, 2020, troops in a swift response to a distress call, with overwhelming firepower, rescued 10 kidnapped victims from bandits at Yenyewa village in Zamfara State. All rescued victims have been successfully reunited with their families.” In the North-East Zone, the DHQ said several land and air operations were conducted by the armed forces and other security agencies between December 17 and 23, noting that the exercise by the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole yielded appreciable results. On December 17, Enenche said the troops of Army Super Camp II Gamboru, neutralised five Boko Haram elements in a fierce fight at Kenuba general area in Borno State. On the same day, the operatives also killed four insurgents and captured two gun trucks as well as one anti-aircraft gun with assorted ammunition from the terrorists at Cross-Kauwa in Borno State. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  