JOHN ALECHENU The tenure extension of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee, as well as party discipline, will take the front burner as the National Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress holds its virtual meeting, in Abuja, on Tuesday, Sunday PUNCH has learnt. It was gathered that after due consultations with relevant stakeholders, the leadership of the party working in concert with governors, state and zonal leaders, the party’s NEC will endorse an extension of time for the Buni-led committee to conclude its assignment. A member of the party’s caucus who spoke to Sunday PUNCH on condition of anonymity said, “We are determined to reposition this party to strengthen it because a lot of damage has been done to our brand. Let’s not pretend about it. “We have an opportunity to start the rebuilding process now and we are taking it seriously; the party is beyond any individual. We are aware of the desperate attempts to use the judiciary to scuttle our carefully laid-out reforms. But we will not be deterred.” The source also said, “The party has been patient with a lot of members, but some of them mistake this for weakness. The party has a constitution which spells out penalties for certain infractions, it is very clear on the issue of litigations without exhausting internal mechanisms, it is expected that the NEC will receive a report on out last resolution asking people to withdraw cases from court after which certain decision will be taken.” The party had at its last NEC meeting held on June 25, 2020 dissolved the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee and empaneled the Buni-led caretaker committee. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), who chaired the committee, appealed to the aggrieved members of the party who had cases in court to withdraw them to allow for reconciliation. However, many members have yet to comply. Only last week, a former national vice-chairman of the party, Hilliard Eta, sued the party and demanded the sack of the Buni committee. Also, aggrieved members of the party under the aegis of the Concerned APC Members on Friday said they were aware of plans to not only extend the caretaker committee’s tenure but also dissolve the entire structure of the party from the ward level. In a statement titled, ‘Why suspect this APC registration/revalidation exercise’ which was signed by the group’s spokesman, Abdullahi Dauda, in Abuja, the group cautioned the APC against falling into the same errors that the former ruling Peoples Democratic Party allegedly fell into. The statement read in part, “We are aware of the plan to postpone our convention and do a fresh registration. The question we are asking is, what happened to the party register? Has the party been operating without one? How did we come about the 16 million members we told Nigerians in 2019? Is this registration not another plan to remove people who those controlling the party now don’t like? Does the caretaker committee need new members to have a convention? “We have it on good authority that the caretaker committee will after the registration and regularisation exercise dissolve all the party structures across the states and conduct new party congresses irrespective of the fact that the tenures of those state structures from ward to state will not expire until 2022 in some states. “The planned dissolution is to allow the ‘cabal’ from having control of the statutory delegates that will attend and vote at the convention. Why can’t the convention be done now and allow the new Party Exco to carry out all other activities from registration to regularisation?” The aggrieved party members enjoined the party leadership to avoid the temptation of taking party members for granted because doing so would worsen an already bad situation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 