Alexander Okere, Dayo Ojerinde and Tukur Muntari The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, on Friday said the state governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had gone into self-isolation. Abayomi, in a statement, titled, ‘Sanwo-Olu goes into self-isolation,’ said the governor decided to go into isolation after one of his close aides tested positive for COVID-19. The commissioner said Sanwo-Olu had been tested for COVID-19 at least three times. The statement read in part, “The governor will go into self-isolation immediately, after one of his close aides tested positive for COVID-19 on December 10. “Mr. Governor and other members of his team will be tested by the Lagos State biobank today but will remain in isolation until the results of the tests are available. “We are seeing a slightly increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases in clusters in Lagos and all Lagosians should adhere to the prescribed advisories of safe distancing, good hand and respiratory hygiene and avoidance of unnecessary gatherings.” The governor’s self-isolation came 72 hours after the General Officer Commanding, 6 Division, Port-Harcourt, Rivers State, Maj. Gen. John Irefin, reportedly died of complications from COVID-19 on Tuesday in Abuja. Irefin’s death, which occurred 24 hours after the commencement of the Chief of Army Staff’s 2020 annual conference, also forced the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai; Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, and other senior military officers who attended the event physically to go into self-isolation. In June, a former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, died from COVID-19 complications, two months after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), lost his former Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, to the virus. No fewer than five state governors had proceeded on self-isolation since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Meanwhile, two persons have lost their lives to the COVID-19 pandemic in Kano State as the number of active cases in the state rose to over 100. This was as Governor Abdullahi Ganduje expressed concern over the non-compliance with COVID-19 protocols and vowed to ensure the enforcement of face masks usage. The state coordinator, Rapid Response on COVID-19, Dr Tijjani Hussaini, said the state recorded the two deaths and 21 new cases within 24 hours. The total number of confirmed deaths stands at 56, with 101 active cases, as of December 11, 2020. “Our medical personnel and facilities are intact; we will recall our volunteer workers,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  