What implication do you think your decision to join the PDP has for politics in Edo State? That singular act should not necessarily be seen in the context of the statement itself. It has to be taken together with the event that occurred prior to this time or even prior to the last election. I believe everybody in this country has followed the development. They have seen the attempt that was made by people who felt they had power and resorted to abuse those powers to distort the political process. Those who belong to that group have also seen how people can be punished for such perfidy. When you try to assault the tenets of democracy, which you also benefited from, then you have to be punished, and that punishment came in a very sound manner in the state. So, whatever happened on Wednesday is a response to the decision of the party’s National Caretaker Committee as regards the activities of the party in Edo State. We didn’t think that the National Caretaker Committee was fair to themselves, the party or members of my faction. We felt that what they did was to promote those who did everything to destroy the party, which made it lose possession of governance of the state. Rewarding them with the leadership of the party in the state is not acceptable to me and my group. In Edo, we didn’t even think those people are members of the APC. They have always professed to be members of the Edo Peoples Movement and, as the chairman of Edo APC, I knew that we did not have a division called EPM, so the caretaker committee has made itself an accessory after the fact by granting them recognition. We decided that if we cannot punish those who worked against the party and we are not valued, we might as well go to a place where we believe we may be of use. And that was what informed our decision to switch sides. Why did it take this long to join Godwin Obaseki in the PDP, considering that you have been his  staunch supporter before and after he defected to the party? In political party administration, when we have primaries or congresses, party members are at liberty to support whoever they want. The party also has stated rules by which it conducts those activities. I was at liberty to support Obaseki. We are human and some of us are better educated than all of them put together. So, I think Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has to take responsibility for what happened, not me. My members and I were sidelined from the process. We had to take it with equanimity because they believed they could do it without the party, due to the fact that they had so much money and felt they could buy Edo people, especially the Benin. But I am happy that the election results revealed the true character of the Benin man and Edo man. How is your faction going to be infused into the existing structure of the PDP without rancour? I think we are lucky that we are joining the party at a time that the PDP is embarking on biometric registration in the state. We are encouraging our members to go to their various wards to be registered so that they can become members of the PDP and begin to participate in the activities of the party. The intention is to strengthen the party in the state. How many of your members are joining the PDP? We had updated our register in an organised registration process that was highly publicised before the primaries. We still have that data and we had over 150,000 members who subscribed to the APC as against the EPM. The distinction is important because it is the APC that is moving into the PDP now; EPM can keep the carcass. Let them go and run the party if they have the capacity. As far as we are concerned, the APC is dead in Edo and it will remain like that for a very long time. In Edo, the leading parties were the PDP and the APC. Today, with the APC going into the PDP, the PDP becomes the main party. With the PDP becoming the main party in the state, how does this help in administration and development without an opposition that could check the activities of the ruling party? During campaigns, politics is good. You politick in order to acquire power and, once you acquire power, politics is supposed to take the back seat and governance becomes prominent. So, for the next three years, at the least, what I foresee is less distraction because the governor now has a robust political organisation that will support him. We don’t need the kind of distraction we suffered in the past 18 months. We could have gone farther than where we are now if Oshiomhole did not bring problems upon the party such that, in the end, he is the victim. He planted the seed of discord and harvested it. He is the one who got about eight people who said they had removed me from office in an executive comprising 36 members. Then, before I even knew about it, he had released a statement in Abuja that he had ratified it as the national chairman of the APC. I was state chairman till the National Executive Committee met a few days ago. But I am sure many have forgotten the date he was the national chairman. So, he reaped what he sowed. What were the irreconcilable issues that led to your exit and that of your members from the party? There was nothing other than his failure to perpetuate himself in power as a godfather. We rejected it; they lost the election and they felt that some people must be punished for it and they are punishing everybody, except the man and his people who created the problem in the first place. Instead, they are rewarding them. So, what is there to reconcile? A reconciliation committee led by Senator Ken Nnamani came to Edo State. What happened to his work? Why can’t we have men of courage to lead the APC? The APC is not only dead in Edo, but it’s a matter of time before the party begins to disintegrate in the country. If you cannot obey your own rules, what will you obey? I am sure that more than 90 per cent of them have not read the constitution of the party and they claim to be running the party. Beyond the resolution of the NEC, what other factors informed your decision and at what point did you start thinking of dumping the party? Immediately after the election, the state executive committee met, where we reviewed the election, which is what any responsible organisation will do. We try to find out why a party in power lost the election. We identified the problems and wrote to the National Caretaker Committee; they did not even have the courtesy of acknowledging our letter. We then issued a communiqué in which we said the first thing to do was to enforce the disciplinary measure which we had carried out over a year.  The first was the suspension of Oshiomhole because he established a parallel organisation which destabilised the party in the state. That is an offence in the constitution of our party. Also, members he claimed were representing the South-South were also suspended. So, when we discovered that the caretaker committee would rather do business with the former APC chairman than the mainstream of the party, we knew that our welcome had expired and we had to move. How is your defection being received by the governor and your new party? They were very happy about the situation. Now, you are going to see the PDP, whose existence was threatened prior to the advent of Obaseki into the party, become a vibrant party again. It has been difficult for the PDP, having been in power for 10 years and losing in another 12 years. So, Obaseki was like a gift to them, together with the people who went with him. Now, the goodwill that Obaseki has is now being shown by this influx into the PDP. The dream of any party is to bolster its membership because those members will be its first line of attack and the last line of defence in any election. In a few years, there is going to be another general election in Nigeria, so there is enough time to integrate into the party and, by the time this election comes around, we would have been fully integrated into the party. There would be camaraderie and everything that goes into our membership. You were blamed for the loss of the APC in the governorship election in the state because you failed to support the candidacy of Pastor Osagie Ize-iyamu, the party standard-bearer. What is your take on this? I laughed at that allegation when I heard. They did not approach me to assist them. They did not think I was important in the process of picking a candidate in a state where I was the chairman. I was not even part of the campaign team. I did not know how they generated the list of agents for the election. If I was not considered important enough to campaign with the party, why would I be important enough to deliver results that will help the party win the election? I think they got what they deserved. I didn’t even expect them to get as many votes as they got. Oshiomhole has wasted his goodwill in the state. He used to be very popular but, today, I can’t say the same. You brought a candidate that you told us was bad, couldn’t be trusted with the treasury of the state and you wanted us to vote for him four years after? And he expects Edo people, who he perceives as foolish and cheap, to just buy it from him? He had poured accolades on Obaseki and told us that he (Obaseki) would do better than him (Ize-Iyamu) because of his capacity to figure out what to do in a challenged economy. Obaseki came and justified that assessment and people poured accolades on him. And all of a sudden, Oshiomhole became antagonistic towards Obaseki, instead of being proud that he brought a successor who could do better than him. What is your advice for the executive, your members and the new party you just joined? My message to Governor Obaseki is that he must remain focused, continue along the tangent that won him re-election and improve on it. Our joining the PDP is to make sure that the governor has the right support such that the distractions he suffered in the last 18 months will never happen in Edo again. I thank our members for remaining tenacious, steadfast and full of character. I am a proud man today because, throughout the problem, we stood our ground and God gave us the result that we deserved.  The APC should know that robbing us of the opportunity to choose our candidate at the primaries was the major cause of the problem. I thought that Oshiomhole should know because he was at a point leading the fight against that sort of behaviour, or did he think he was above the rules? Nothing makes him superior to any of us. How could someone who was a beneficiary of our benevolence think that he can do that to us? I would have expected him to act in a grateful manner. He should have given us a little bit of respect but he didn’t. He is still fighting. I don’t know what he told them in Abuja. I am sure they will see the result of this action. If there is anything they will ever regret in their political lives, it is the loss of Edo. Events have shown that the beginning of the end of any political party in Nigeria starts from Edo. The PDP reversal started here in 2004. The APC decline has started and we will see what happens in 2023. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  