Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti Council of Elders has bemoaned the non-approval by the Federal Government of firearms for the Amotekun Corps in the South-West states despite the proliferation of arms across the country. The council’s President, Prof. Joseph Oluwasanmi; Secretary, Niyi Ajibulu; and Public Relations Officer, Dr Bayo Orire; said this was more worrisome “with the ubiquity of bandits that Amotekun will have to contend with” in the different the states. The council, in a statement by Oluwasanmi, Ajibulu and Orire, dated December 17, 2020 and made available to journalists on Sunday, called on governors of the South-West states “to continue to discuss with the Federal Government so as to properly equip Amotekun, particularly in the area of firearms.” It decried the legal brick wall constituted on the path of Amotekun, which pushed the security agency from being a regional outfit to states. Although the elders expressed delight that the security outfit came into being, they expressed worries “that within a month, just as Amotekun was finding its feet, the wave of kidnapping and other crimes in the state (Ekiti) shot up.” They, however, said, “The South-West state governments should realise that Amotekun can only succeed in its tasks if it remains community-owned and community-driven. It is through these that the outfit can be indispensable to other security agencies through intelligence sharing as well as detecting and forestalling crimes. “The state governments that have been the major financiers of the Federal Government security agencies in their states should draw a line and concentrate more on providing equipment and gadgets for surveillance for Amotekun over which they have complete control.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 