Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Ebonyi State Police Command and the member representing the Ezza North West Constituency in the state House of Assembly, Victor Chukwu, have condemned the killing of one Chinedu Nwode and his girlfriend at Oriuzor community in the Ezza North Local Government Area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that the lovers’ killing angered some people believed to be members of the Aye Confraternity, who in turn killed one Chikwado Nweke and another at Onueke community in the same local government on Sunday. It was alleged that the killings followed a renewed clash between two rival cults in the state, the Baggers and Aye confraternities. Nwode and his girlfriend, it was gathered, were returning from a child dedication in Oriuzor to the Onueke when they were shot dead. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mrs Loveth Odah, said on Tuesday that the command frowned on the spate of killings in the area and wondered why the families of those killed had not come up to report the incidents. She stated, “This is bad and I don’t know why these things are more often heard of in this area. This is condemnable and it’s unfortunate that those who lost their loved ones to these crises have not come up to identify themselves. How can these things be happening in that place and these are brothers, and they are just killing themselves. “Meanwhile, on hearing this ugly news, the Ebonyi State Commissioner of Police, Mr Philip Maku, deployed men of the command in the area to ensure that more lives are not lost. The police are investigating the matter and soon, we will tell you what really happened.” Chukwu, who is the Leader of the state House of Assembly, said in a telephone interview, “It is a very tragic and sorrowful moment in my community. It is a very tragic experience. This incident has thrown me into a very terrible mood. This involves the death of a young man and a young lady in my community. “I will not sleep until I unravel the circumstances surrounding that young man’s death and whoever that has a hand in it will never go unpublished. I will do everything within my powers to ensure that the killers don’t go unpunished.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com      