Adelani  Adepegba, Abuja Family, friends and well-wishers on Sunday eulogised the late publisher of the Leadership Newspapers, Mr Sam Nda-Isaiah, during a virtual service of songs held in his honour in Abuja. Nda-Isaiah’s immediate younger brother, Joseph, described him as a blessing, stating that the deceased lived a life of “loving deeds” and left an impact on the lives of all he came across. Joseph said he felt blessed to have had Sam as a brother, adding that his legacies would live on in his children. He said, “We knew a day like this would come, but we did not know it would come this early. My brother loved us (siblings) and our mother dearly. I feared how my mother would survive. She trusted him so much that she knew that everything she asked of him would be given her. “We took Sam like our father. We even ‘feared’ him more than our father because he was a strict man. But he touched lives and impacted even those that he did not know. We miss him.” The Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Bello, said the deepest memories of the deceased were his love for life, family, friends and a better Nigeria. “Uncle Sam was a fantastic man who knew what he wanted. He was a man of the people and a very good man. “On the 17th of November, when he couldn’t speak to me on the phone because I was breathless, he sent me a message advising me on medications to build my immunity against COVID-19. He never knew that the same COVID-19 would be the cause of his death,” Bello said. The Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Most Revd. Matthew Kukah, in a video message, described Sam as an extraordinary man who was very passionate about a better Nigeria. He regretted that those in power did not take advantage of “Sam’s sterling qualities in the task of rebuilding the nation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com