Afeez Hanafi and Dayo Ojerinde PUNCH Newspaper clinched three awards in the 29th edition of the Diamond Awards for Media Excellence held on Saturday at the Oriental Hotel, Lagos. PUNCH won the Best Designed Newspaper ahead of The Guardian declared as the first runner-up, while The Nation was the second runner-up. The newspaper was also declared winner in the Editorial Writing Category, beating BusinessDay and The Nation to the first and second runners-up respectively. The PUNCH’s winning editorial was published on May 1, 2019, titled, ‘Cheerless valediction for Eighth National Assembly.’ In the Newspaper of the Year category won by The Nation, PUNCH emerged the first runner-up, while Vanguard was the second runner-up. The Guardian was adjudged the Best Child-Friendly Medium. The PUNCH’s Editor, Mr Ademola Oni, was declared the first runner-up in The Editor of the Year category won by The Nation’s Editor, Mr Niyi Adesina, while Vanguard’s Editor, Mr Eze Anaba, was the second runner-up. A correspondent on the Weekend Titles of PUNCH Newspaper, Afeez Hanafi, emerged winner in the Sports Reporting Category. His entry titled, ‘Breaking boundaries: World of visually-impaired sport fans who ‘watch,’ play football,’ beat those of Ajibade Olusesan of New Telegraph and Gowon Akpondor of The Guardian, who were the first and second runners-up respectively. Hanafi also emerged the first runner-up in the Agriculture Reporting won by Bayo Akioye of ThisDay. Jesusegun Alagbe, also of PUNCH’s Weekend Titles, was the second runner-up in the category. Another PUNCH correspondent, Ramon Oladimeji, was the first runner-up in the Judiciary Reporting won by Gbenga Ogundare of The Nation. Dayo Ojerinde of The PUNCH was the second runner-up in the Nutrition Reporting category won by Chioma Obinna of Vanguard. Other winners are Ibrahim Adeyemi of BusinessDay, Education Reporting; Taiwo Adebayo of Premium Times, Investigative Reporting. An Associate Editor of The Nation, Olatunji Ololade, won the Lagos Reporting and Child-Friendly Reporting categories. The Chief Executive Officer of Channels Television, Mr John Momoh, won the Lifetime Award. In his welcome address, the Supervising Trustee and Chief Executive Officer, Diamond Publications, Mr Lanre Idowu, said the report of the DAME panel of judges indicated that most of the entries adequately addressed the situations in the country. He said, “The point needs to be stressed that DAME would not award prizes whose credibility cannot be defended. We regret that no prizes are recommended for the broadcast sector because we had issues with the quality or paucity of the entries. It is a subject we will be discussing in the New Year with stakeholders.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 