Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Government on Tuesday insisted that there would be no going back on the ban placed on church activities, particularly the cross-over services on December 31, 2020, following the outbreak of the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. The government, through the Ondo State Inter-ministerial Committee on COVID-19, had announced the ban last week and said the enforcement of the COVID-19 protocols would begin from January 1, 2021. But the state Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev. John Oladapo, kicked against the directive of the government, saying the association was not consulted before the decision was taken. He said, “Services hold as the normal tradition demands. We were not consulted. We are not aware of that.
Issues like this are not just a radio announcement or someone just writing from one corner of his office. ” However, the Chairman, Ondo State Inter-Ministerial Committee on COVID-19, Prof. Adesegun Fatusi, in a statement warned against violating the government’s directive on the matter, declaring that anyone caught violating the order would be punished according to the law. In the statement titled, ‘Response of the Ondo State Inter-ministerial Committee On COVID-19 to CAN leadership on the issue of vigil on 31st December 2020,’ Fatusi noted that the directives of the government were for the safety of the people of the state against the spread of the deadly pandemic. Adesegun said, “We hereby call on all the people in Ondo State to celebrate the end of the year with a deep sense of responsibility and a strong commitment to safety and resist any call by anyone, no matter how highly placed, for them to disobey government health order and, therefore, put themselves at the risk of COVID-19 and its consequences as well as legal penalties, including fines and jail terms as specified in the Ondo State COVID-19 laws. Obedience, as the Holy Bible states, is better than sacrifice. “We also deeply appreciate the efforts of Christian leaders who had acted responsibly and responsively to inform their branches and members of the subsisting curfew and encouraged them to follow the government’s orders.”