Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe A commercial bus driver, Fred Onwuche, has been arrested for allegedly injuring an official of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, Kosoko Razak, with a pestle. It was gathered that Onwuche, who drove a minibus with number plate, AAA 693 YC, was arrested by Razak around the Jakande area of the state for not using a seat belt. PUNCH Metro learnt that an argument ensued between the duo, which led to Onwuche hitting the officer with a pestle on the head. The General Manager of the agency, Olajide Oduyoye, who condemned the attack in a statement, noted that the suspect would be prosecuted. He said, “The brutish attack on the officer by the suspect is condemnable and uncalled for. The way and manner it was carried out, it was like a premeditated attempt to kill the officer. “We must, therefore, send a strong signal to others like the attacker by ensuring that the culprit is punished to the full extent of the law. “The law must go full circle in this case. There should be no shifting of ground or out-of-court settlement of this matter that could have thrown the agency, colleagues and the family of Mr Razak into mourning, if not for divine intervention. “This is not the first attack on a LASTMA official, some of whom have died after being attacked at work. LASTMA will remain focused on its duties despite intimidation and assault on its personnel, and anyone caught harassing its officers will pay dearly for such offences as stipulated by the law.” Our correspondent learnt that the officer was rushed to hospital for treatment, while Onwuche was handed over to the Ilasan Police Station. Oduyoye urged motorists in the state to ensure compliance with the traffic laws of the state to avoid arrest. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 