Ife Ogunfuwa The Ogun State Government has pledged to address challenges hindering the expansion plans of various companies in the state that plan to expand their factories to increase their production capacities. The Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs Kikelomo Longe, made the pledge during the tour of Proforce Limited, Ode-Remo and Coleman Technical Company Limited, Sagamu, a statement issued by the press officers at the ministry, Wale Osunbiyi and Ismail Oladipo, said. Longe assured the management of the companies that the government would take action on their request for more land, approvals and other challenges, to ensure their plans came to fruition. She commended the companies for going ahead with their expansion plans and enlarging their tentacles in the area of exportation of their products despite the negative effects of the coronavirus pandemic on businesses globally. The commissioner said, “I am extremely thrilled that despite the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, more industries in Ogun State, including the four industries we have visited in the last two days, are all taking steps to expand their production lines and factories. “As a responsive government, we will address those issues they have raised, including requests for more land. We will even look into more areas in which we can help them achieve their plans.” She noted that the companies’ expansion plans would give a boost to the economy as well as gainfully employ youths in the state and assured that the government would not relent in its efforts to improve the ease of doing business in the state. Also speaking, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Olu Aikulola, lauded the companies for being totally indigenous companies that use their products to solve problems in the country. He noted that the government was already working on the harmonisation of its taxes to ensure all issues of multiple taxation were addressed. The Group Managing Director, Proforce Limited, Ode-Remo, Mr Adetokunbo Ogundeyin, said the company, the only armoured-car manufacturer in sub-Saharan Africa, would expand into the production of more weapons to meet increasing demand. He called on the state government to help in addressing its challenge of getting more portions of land approved for its new factory. Similarly, the Managing Director, Coleman Technical Industries Limited, Sagamu, Mr George Onafowokan, said the company would expand its Sagamu and Arepo factories in order to enlarge its chain of production. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 