Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has appointed Mr Bello Hassan as the new managing director of Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation. He also appointed Mr Mustapha Ibrahim as executive director of the corporation. The President reappointed Mr Ahmed Kuru as managing director, and Mr Eberechukwu Uneze and Mr Aminu Ismail as executive directors of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria for the final term of five years. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, disclosed these in a statement on Monday titled “President Buhari renominates MD, executive directors of AMCON; nominates new MD, executive director of NDIC.” Shehu said the nominations had been forwarded to the Senate for confirmation. The statement read, “President Muhammadu Buhari has renominated Mr Ahmed Kuru as managing director and Mr Eberechukwu Uneze and Mr Aminu Ismail as executive directors of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria for the final term of five years. “This was contained in a letter to the President of the Senate seeking confirmation of the nominees by the upper chamber in accordance with Section 10(1) of the AMCON Act, 2010. “Similarly, in another letter to the President of the Senate in compliance with Sections 5(4) and 8(3) of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2010, President Buhari has asked the Senate to confirm the nominations of Mr Bello Hassan as the managing director, and Mr Mustapha Muhammad Ibrahim as executive director of the corporation. “The two nominees are to succeed Mr Umaru Ibrahim and Prince Aghatise Erediuwa whose second terms end on December 8, 2020 as managing director and executive director (Operations) respectively. “Meanwhile, Hon. Omolola Abiola Edewor, is to continue as executive director (corporate services) in the NDIC until her second and final term ends on January 24, 2022.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  