Peter Dada,  Akure The Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Mr Bamidele Oloyeloogun and three members of the Assembly would be arraigned before the state High Court on December 17, 2020 for contempt of court. They are to be arraigned over their alleged refusal to obey an order of the court to reinstate three suspended members of the House. Those to be arraigned include the Speaker, the Clerk of the Assembly, Mr Bode Adeyelu, the Parliamentary Secretary- Mr Abayomi Akinruntan and the Deputy-Majority Leader, Mr Olamide Oladiji. The assembly had suspended four lawmakers: Mr Iroju Ogundeji, Mr Adewale Williams, Mrs Favour Tomomewo and Tomide Akinribido over alleged gross misconduct. The affected lawmakers however challenged the action in court and the court ruled in their favour and ordered their reinstatement. However, the leadership of the assembly went on appeal and asked for a stay of execution, which the court dismissed. After the appellate court judgement, the concerned lawmakers attempted to enter the Assembly Complex but were prevented from doing so by security officials. A legal back and forth ensued after the Speaker and other assembly officials failed to honour the invitation of the court. In the same vein, a Federal High Court,  sitting  in Akure, state capital on Wednesday ordered the arrest of six members of the Assembly for their absence in court in a case  between the State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi and the Assembly. Ajayi had approached the court to sue the  Assembly over alleged infringement  on his right to political beliefs. The presiding judge, Justice Abdul Dogo, said the court had powers to order the arrests, saying the case was being heard for the third time but that the six lawmakers who were defendants in the case, had refused to appear in court. He ordered the state Commissioner of Police to carry out the order and bring the six lawmakers to the court on the next adjourned date. He adjourned the case till February 15, 2021. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 