What activities is Convention of Business Integrity involved in? The Convention on Business Integrity was set up to build integrity in business. What that means in practical terms is that it searches for alternatives to corruption as the route to finance, market, know-how and business success. Is it possible to choose integrity and win? That is the work CBI does. How do you work with other business organisations to achieve these goals? We have several ways. Number one, we do a corporate governance rating system, which is being used by the Nigerian Stock Exchange and it assists companies to be able to show that they are not part of the nonsense that goes on in Nigeria, or at least shows that they are on a path out of the nonsense that goes on in Nigeria in order for them to get finance or access other markets. This is because sometimes, there is a market sanction that your entity is in Nigeria, which other people don’t go through. That is one way. The other way is through the convention of entities itself. We have a group of signatories, so you can sign on to the Convention on Business Integrity and what we do in that group is to try to find alternatives to corruption; What do we do in order to survive? What we found out, in the end, was that the biggest challenge for most organisations is in their interface with regulatory agencies. And that led us to start a new thing they called “Regulatory Conversations” where we research what is going on in a particular sector and we try to see from the pain point of businesses in that sector but we also invite stakeholders and regulatory agencies to come and dialogue because we noticed that there isn’t a philosophy of regulation in Nigeria. What is the biggest factor causing corruption in government agencies? The biggest factor is discretion. Most things are left to the discretion of the officer in charge and that is coupled with the lack of automation. Even the smallest that you could have applied for on a website, without human intervention, you will find out that you will have to see a messenger before you can submit. Or even when you pay, somebody refuses to give you the receipt that you need for the next part of the process, until you pay them something. All these and the absence of automation and computerisation leave people vulnerable and it is not always big money. It is from the smallest amount and the smallest officer that it starts all the way to the top. Has government agencies improved in the use of technology to facilitate their activities? No, we can’t say that generally.  For example, when applying for a passport, theoretically, you are supposed to do it online. But when you try it online, you will still have to go to their office, speak to the officers otherwise, you will be in the queue forever. That is not the type of automation we are looking for. We are looking for real automation which is supported by a complaint desk that works. What are the benefits of CBI’s corporate governance rating systems for organisations? The major benefit of the corporate governance rating systems is that it distinguishes your organisation in a context where all organisations are branded as corrupt. It gives you evidence that you can present. Also, it is very difficult as an individual organisation to try to change how your regulator behaves, if the behaviour of its members of staff is such that it encourages bribery and corruption. What we do as a group is come up with strategies to reduce this challenge, which is also part of what the regulatory conversation is doing to reduce that bite and save the company from having to get involved or continue to feel vulnerable. That is what we do. We escalate issues that are coming up and try to stand in the gap for the company. So, you don’t actually mention the name of the company when you interface with the regulatory agency involved? It depends. For instance, we are doing some work in the maritime sector and it has matured to the point that we can mention the name because when they are making a complaint, we are happy to name names and speak of the specifics. One of the incarnations of that is the Maritime Anticorruption Network that we are operating in Nigeria. It is a global movement but we run the Nigerian effort and when captains come and call at Nigeria’s force, and instead of the officials doing what they are supposed to do, they do what the police do to most of us. They say, “Clear well” “Where are your particulars?” You show them everything, and they ask you, “Where is your fire extinguisher?” you show them and then they ask for the receipt for it. “Ah-ha! You see, that is an infraction. You are not carrying the receipt?” That kind of thing also happens to ships, general vessels and oil rigs. For every day that they are delayed, it could cost them between $15,000 to $1m a day. Thus, it puts them under pressure that because this official is asking me for $500 or $5,000, they could incur a cost of $1m. This is where we now come together to get the issue quickly escalated through the Nigeria Shippers’ Council and it goes to the top of the agency concerned. For instance, if it is about immigration, it will reach the Comptroller General of Immigration and they are cooperating in this project and will immediately investigate to find out why it is happening and if there is a real infraction. If there is an infraction, the company is ready to pay the fine but it wants to pay the fine to the government. Usually, we find out that there are trumped-up charges, there is no real offense and the vessel is released. Three years ago, it was taking two to three days to resolve but today, it takes not more than three hours to achieve. That project has been on since 2012 but it is now in the last three years that we are seeing the kind of success we want. Has CBI been able to intervene to fast-track clearing of cargoes at the ports? Yes, this year, we started a new programme during COVID-19 pandemic on cargo clearing. The stage we are in now is raising awareness of the private sector and encouraging them to join the Integrity Alliance. We are also speaking with the government through the Shippers’ Council to have nominees from each of the agencies involved in the port who will be trained as compliance officers to strengthen the compliance function so it won’t be our word against theirs. Internally, they will have the capacity to detect people who are not following the standard operating procedure. They too can sanction them and it doesn’t require the private sector that will always raise the issue and report. We think that is necessary because on the cargo side, there are very many people involved and many incidents. We are also developing something we call ‘User Experience Diary’ that when they go to the port to clear their cargo, they will go with their phone and as they are experiencing this, they will be able to know whether the officials are following standard operating procedure or not or are asking for un-receipted payments. They will record it but if they run into any problem, they should just submit it to us and in real-time, someone will try and help to fix it or escalate it to the top of the agency concerned. Apart from the maritime industry, are there other industries where you have had a significant impact? We have been running the regulatory conversations and we did one when there was this demand on MTN. MTN is one of our signatories and there was also a demand on some banks then. Diamond Bank was also our signatory. We felt the need to act and do something without getting them involved directly. That was when we held the first Regulatory Conversation to discuss the $8.1bn fine imposed on MTN. We started to make a lot of noise about it to try to expose the fact that these could not be an action in the public interest because the action threatened to shut down the whole MTN globally because the fine was going to be bigger than their market capitalisation on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. We believed that there were special interests who wanted to benefit by seeing the downfall of that company. They wanted to punish the company for not acting in the way they wanted. We felt that it should be resisted. In the end, it was settled out of court and the fine was reduced. Then, you wonder, why do you damage a company so badly for something that you did not actually have concrete evidence of and you are destroying their reputation. In the maritime sector, we intervened and held a stakeholder’s meeting. When it was clear that the corruption level was still too high and we wrote to the Vice President, Yemi Osibanjo,  and complained that “Look, this thing is still too high and we would like your intervention”. We didn’t get a response immediately but we were not sure because it was 2019 and close to the election. We were pleasantly surprised that the new Chairman of ICPC came on board and said “By the way, there is a letter you have written to his Excellency and was sent to me.” We told him what the issue was and since then, there has been more vigilance at the ports. We heard that some officials that were doing the wrong thing and persisted in it have been caught in the act by the ICPC. We have recorded specific outcomes like these linked to the advocacy which has led us to think that is there a way can automate it such that it is done electronically so that the agencies can act on it. That is why we decide to strengthen compliance because if there are people in the agency who are likely to take it up, it will make it easier for the government to respond. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 