SUBJECTED to a new wave of savage criminality, the high expectation of citizens that the Western Nigerian Security Network Agency codenamed Amotekun will bring succour their way is fading. Except in some isolated cases of rescue, the initial show of great bravura that accompanied Amotekun’s formation has translated to despondency. While still embroiled in taking-off rituals, the targets of the agency, especially kidnappers, have returned with ferocity across the region, maiming, abducting, destroying farmland and killing. That is dangerously uncomfortable. The unacceptable level of violent crime has been reemphasised in a jointly signed statement by 46 eminent Nigerians, who demanded an end to the bloodshed and insecurity in the country. They rightly noted, “What we see, like others, is incompetence in governance demonstrated by a lack of ideas on how to tackle insecurity, a poor understanding of the situation and a clear failure in the pursuit of government engagement to address these problems.” Apart from the gross leadership failure at the centre, the South-West governors are failing too, and there is no defence for it. Amotekun was created early in 2020 to fill the gaping insecurity hole in the South-West. Although the hawks at the federal level opposed it, it received a huge groundswell of support from the people of the region, who experience abductions and killings on the highways and forests in their area firsthand. It is a weak leader that sacrifices the safety and security of his people on the altar of politics. In the past few weeks, the criminals have murdered the Olufon of Ifon, Israel Adeusi, a first class king who was kidnapped between Akure and his town in Ondo State. Brutally, kidnappers snatched the wife of the Chief of Staff to the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on the same day in the Owena area. Crime is back. In November, a Chinese engineer was abducted and his police escort shot dead on the Ado-Ekiti–Iyin-Ekiti Highway. A day earlier, gunmen killed the pastor of Solution Baptist Church, Ikere-Ekiti, Johnson Oladimeji, on the Igbara Odo-Ikere Ekiti Road on his way back from Osun State to Ekiti. In 2019, Funke Olakunri, daughter of Afenifere leader, Rueben Fasoranti, was cruelly murdered on the Ore-Benin Expressway. Herdsmen have recently again rampaged through the farm of Olu Falae, a former Minister of Finance. In 2015, Falae was abducted in his farm and his crops destroyed by herdsmen. Repeatedly, banks are being robbed in Ekiti and Ondo states. In November, at least one person died in a bank robbery in Ode-Irele in Ondo State. In some parts of Lagos, gangsters (cultists) and traffic robbers operate with ferocious impunity. In spite of this, Amotekun has not taken off in full. Most of the governors seem content just signing the law to back it up, though it has commenced in Ondo and Ekiti, where its operations are being hindered by the shortage of equipment. In Osun, Amotekun is to commence operation in February 2021; the date for its take off in Ogun and Oyo, where it was inaugurated with fanfare, has not been made known. In Lagos, Amotekun has been subsumed under the Neighbourhood Safety Corps, which predated it. Crime waits for no one, but exploits these administrative laxities to entrench itself. With the federal security agencies overwhelmed, the impact of insecurity is all too evident – farmers are unable to go to the farm, banks operate skeletal services, social life is depressed and travelling imperilled. Prices of foodstuff have soared. The crux of the matter is that the governors gradually developed cold feet despite their initial enthusiasm about Amotekun. Some of it might be linked to political correctness, wanting to appease the powers at the centre. But these fearful times in which audacious criminals are running riot require men of purpose who know the steps to take in overcoming the security meltdown. Therefore, governors should not take security lightly because it is one of their sworn primary responsibilities. Rather, they should immerse themselves in all possible legal and pragmatic efforts to achieve the grand objective behind the formation of Amotekun. To this end, the six helmsmen ought to strategise afresh as Amotekun has the potential to deepen security and serve as a model for the other geopolitical zones. The fire that instigated should not die down. It has been consistently argued that a centralised police system is incongruous with a heterogeneous country like Nigeria. Policing in Canada, a similar federal setup like Nigeria, is on three levels: municipal, provincial and federal. The Canadian Centre for Justice Statistics says that the forces have different mandates; cater to different populace, diverse community circumstances and operational requirements. As of 2018, there were 141 stand-alone police forces at the municipal level. There are over 17,000 police agencies in the United States, including city police departments, school police organisations, county sheriff’s offices, state police/highway patrol and federal law enforcement agencies like the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Therefore, the governors of the six South-West states should take a cue from this and make the security network operate efficiently. This distinctness is important because the crimes in the South-West are different from say, in the North-East and the North-West. In this region, the invasion of farmland by herdsmen, bank robberies and gangland killings need a dedicated corps conversant with these local challenges. Beyond rhetoric, Amotekun should have a super telecommunication centre for the coordination of its intelligence gathering activities. In this era, drone technology is available for such an agency. It should be equipped with this, and other forms of technology to be able to flush out the criminals hibernating in the forests. The CCTV is a useful tool in fighting crime. States should install CCTV cameras in strategic areas and highways. Governors should prepare to establish a regional digital operations centre. To inculcate efficiency, the recruitment process should be transparent and devoid of political leanings. The informal groups like hunters, who are versed in local nuances of security, should be engaged, especially in the area of intelligence gathering and processing. Amotekun personnel should not be assigned to politicians, as the police are fond of doing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 