Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Uche Secondus, on Monday said Nigeria was sliding into a failed state with the growing spate of senseless killings across the country. He expressed sadness that virtually every aspect of national life had collapsed. Secondus said this in Bayelsa State when he led other PDP leaders to the official campaign flag-off for Senatorial flag bearers in Bayelsa West and Central, Seriake Dickson and Cleopas Moses respectively. The PDP National Chairman said, “Everywhere is broken down. Security is broken down; the economy is broken down. It is the most difficult time for our nation. The country is falling apart, but we, the PDP believe in a united Nigeria. Only the PDP has an answer. “Today, as we stand here to speak to you, Nigeria is fast becoming a failed state and the only rescue is that, when you put quality people in the National Assembly, they can make laws that will defend you. “We are going to rescue Nigeria from the hands of the APC. The only way is to start from home. In Lagos, Imo and Plateau, we are going to win the senatorial bye-elections. In Plateau, our candidate there is the most popular. In Cross River, we are also going to win.” Secondus, who described Dickson and Moses as credible and extraordinary candidates, boasted that the party would win the election scheduled for December 5 by a wide margin. The two-party standard bearers were handed the party’s flag during separate events at Sagbama and Yenagoa. Speaking during one of the events, Dickson said his APC counterpart, Chief Peremobowei Ebebi, who was a party to the prevailing zoning arrangement in the senatorial district, has proved that he was not to be trusted because of his decision to breach the arrangement. He urged the people to punish his betrayal with their votes. In his remarks, Governor Douye Diri, said the PDP was presenting its best to represent the state at the Senate. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com       