Sodiq Oyeleke Voting commenced peacefully on Saturday in the Lagos East Senatorial and Kosofe Constituency 2 bye-elections amidst low voter turnout in the affected five local government areas of the state. The Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Obafemi Hamzat has cast his vote in the ongoing Lagos-East bye-election. He cast his ballot at Ward 4 Unit 002 at Oke-Balogun Central Mosque, Epe around 10 am. After voting, he commended the peaceful conduct of voters at his unit. The deputy governor appealed that such peaceful conduct should be replicated in other areas. The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Lagos East Senatorial bye-election, Babatunde Gbadamosi, voted around 10.50 am at polling unit 14, Isele ward 1, Ikorodu. He complained about the low voter turnout, saying that the Independent National Electoral Commission failed to properly educate voters. Gbadamosi said the process has been peaceful so far. Our correspondent gathered that card reader failed at Polling Unit 009 Agbala village in Ikorodu Local Government Area. Also, the Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, cast her vote about 11:40 am at ward 51 Ayangburen, Isele Ward 1 Unit 12 Ayangburin Street, Ikorodu, Lagos. Some voters told The PUNCH that election officials and materials arrived late at many wards in Kosofe Local Government Area. NAN reports that INEC officials reported on duty and voting commenced at about 8:30 a.m in most polling units across Lagos East Senatorial District comprising Somolu, Ikorodu, Epe, and Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Areas. Majority Leader, Lagos State House of Assembly, Sanai Agunbiade, said INEC has significantly improved in the conduct of elections in the country. “People are exercising their franchise peacefully and people are obeying Social distance while voting,” the Lagos lawmaker told newsmen after casting his vote at polling unit 043 at Grammar School, Aga/Ijomu area of Ikorodu. Candidates from 12 political parties are contesting in the Lagos East Senatorial by-elections while eight candidates are contesting the Kosofe Constituency II, Lagos State House of Assembly by-elections. The contestants for the senatorial election are Muyiwa Adebanjo, Action Alliance; Ms Mercy Adeoye, African Action Congress, and John Kome, African Democratic Congress. Others are Adebowale Ogunlaru, Action Democratic Party; Adetokunbo Abiru, All Progressives Congress; Olusola Babatope, Allied Peoples Movement; Mrs Florence Trautman, Labour Party; and Ms Adijat Lawal, New Nigeria Peoples Party. They also include Babatunde Gbadamosi, Peoples Democratic Party; Akin Olukunle, National Rescue Movement; Saheed Aluko, Social Democratic Party and Taiwo Temitope, Young Progressive Party. The eight contestants for the Kosofe Constituency II bye-election are John Akerele, AA; Sadiq Olawale, AAC; Wasiu Saheed, APC; Adekunle Oladapo, LP; Muyideen Agoro, NNPP; Ademorin Adelaja, NRM; Sikiru Alebiosu, PDP and Mrs Mary Abojeh, ADC. The two bye-elections became necessary following the demise of the former occupants who were members of APC.