Samson Folarin THE Board Chairman of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi, Alhaji Ibrahim Gwarzo, has opened up on the battle between the board and the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Onu Ogbonnaya, during the certificate scandal that recently rocked the institute. Gwarzo said 10 attempts by Ogbonnaya to dissolve the board were rebuffed by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The chairman spoke on Thursday at the Third Gani Fawehinmi Impact and Integrity Awards at Ikeja, where he won the Outstanding Integrity Award for his handling of the matter. He beat the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, to the prize. The PUNCH had followed happenings at FIIRO since 2019 when a former acting Director-General of the institute, Chima Igwe, was involved in a controversy over his doctorate from a varsity in Benin Republic. After Igwe was indicted by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, he was removed by the FIIRO governing board. Further investigations by the board led to Igwe’s demotion, as he was discovered to have fraudulently gained promotion with the phantom PhD for 18 years. However, the institute’s supervisory minister, Ogbonnaya, made several attempts to reinstate the disgraced DG. When all the attempts failed, the minister asked the Presidency to dissolve the board, as he accused the chairman of insubordination. Gwarzo, who was surrounded by board members and directors at FIIRO while receiving the Gani Fawehinmi award, thanked the President for standing by the board. He said, “We were petitioned under this certificate saga in 10 different places and stages. He was asking Mr President to dissolve the board, which he didn’t do magnanimously because we were asked to comment. “Mr President advised the minister to reconcile with the board and that was the end of the matter.” Gwarzo recalled that Igwe had insisted that he possessed the PhD and went to a Federal High Court at Abuja to swear an affidavit to that effect. He said, “This man had risen from Principal Research Officer to Chief Research Officer to Deputy Director to Director to acting Director General, fraudulently for 18 years. There is still the issue of collecting salaries for 18 years and attaining four promotions under a false claim. And so, how can we overlook that? The Outstanding Impact Award was won by Nurudeen Temitola, while the Whistle Blower Award was won by Abdullahi Sambo. Onu did not take his calls and had yet to respond to a text message seeking his reaction as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 