Eta, who was a member of the defunct NWC, approached a Federal High Court in Abuja, penultimate Friday, to ask for the nullification of the June 25, 2020 APC National Executive Council meeting which dissolved the NWC. It was at the same NEC meeting that the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/ Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee was set up to run the party’s affairs for an initial period of six months. Eta’s decision to challenge NEC’s action was even more puzzling, following a personal appeal by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to aggrieved members to withdraw pending litigations and explore internal dispute resolution mechanisms. Article 13.3 (ii) and (v) of the APC Constitution 2014 (As amended), empowers the party’s NEC to discharge the responsibilities of the national convention which is the highest decision-making organ of the party. Specifically, Article 13.3 (v) stipulates that the NEC shall “exercise control and take disciplinary actions on all organs, officers and members of the party and determine appeals brought before it by any member or organ of the party.” Apart from Buhari, the June 25 NEC meeting was attended by the Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo; Senate President, Ahmed Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; and several APC governors as well as senior ranking party leaders. Buhari’s intervention, which led to Oshiomhole’s sacking, was meant to douse the tension in the party. However, party insiders revealed that APC governors who were plotting the ex-party chairman’s downfall simply cashed in on his missteps to edge him out in order to take full control of the party structure ahead of the 2023 general elections. Oshiomhole and several members of the dissolved NWC are known sympathisers of the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, who is believed to be nursing a 2023 presidential ambition. The Director-General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Dr Salihu Lukman, while reviewing the seemingly intractable crisis within the APC, observed that the refusal of entrenched interests to institutionalise internal leadership contests was largely responsible for some of the avoidable distractions the party was currently forced to deal with. He explained that the entrenched interests were adept at using strong-arm tactics to manipulate the system to not only block open leadership contests but also criminalise political aspirations. Lukman said, “Most of the needless court cases within our parties, including the APC, are initiated based on the anger that open and transparent leadership contests are blocked. “A simple legal audit of all legal cases by party members and leaders against their parties, will show that the objective is mainly to negotiate leadership positions. “Even the recent suit instituted by Mr Hilliard Eta, the former APC National Vice Chairman, South-South, against the APC Caretaker Committee, is basically aimed to negotiate the return of Mr Eta to the leadership of the APC.” Speaking in a similar vein, an Enugu State chieftain of the APC who is also the Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu, queried the timing of Eta’s suit. He described the suit as curious, considering the fact that it was instituted four months after the decision of NEC. He equally wondered why the suit was coming up at a time notable members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, including the Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi and the Senator representing Adamawa South in the National Assembly, Elisha Abbo, decided to join the family of the progressives. Okechuckwu said, “Without prejudice to the court process, Eta knows that Section 21 (A) of the APC’s Constitution frowns at offences bordering on anti-party activities or any conduct which is likely to embarrass or have adverse effects on the party. “Is his suit, in spite of his bogus claim, not capable of deceiving the gullible? If he continues in his misadventure, he can’t claim ignorance of how the APC’s Constitution views impersonation and how it rates one heading to court against the party without first exhausting all avenues for redress as provided in the constitution.” Not every party member shares these views. The spokesperson for a group of aggrieved party members under the aegis of Concerned APC Members, Abdullahi Dauda, blamed systemic injustice for the current crisis. He said, “Let us not beat about the bush, the problem within our party now is injustice. Some of our governors want to take over everything, they just want to take over and share positions among themselves all because of 2023. “Even the Buni-led committee is an illegal body. Look at Article 17 (iv) of the APC Constitution, it says ‘No officer in any organ of the party shall hold executive position office in government concurrently’. In this caretaker committee, you have three serving executive governors performing the functions of party executives. Is this not illegality? “The committee has even gone outside its mandate of reconciling aggrieved members and conducting a national convention within six months; it now wants to conduct fresh membership registration.” However, one of the framers of the APC Constitution, Muiz Banire, SAN, explained that the constitutional provision cited in this instance does not apply to the governors because they were not elected to hold executive party positions but were called upon as senior party members to carry out an assignment by NEC. On his part, a party leader who craved anonymity for fear of retribution, said, “Power is not what people can give up easily. If you allow him, even your gateman will want to exercise power over who gains entry or leaves your house. “Most of our governors will be done with their second and the last term in office by 2023 and most of them desire to remain politically relevant after serving out their term. “Some of them are struggling to become Vice President; some want to go to the Senate or become ministers. Of course, they literally own the party, they pay the piper and it is natural that they want to call the tune, this is the reality of our party politics today. “The desperation to ‘take back’ the party structure from rival power blocs within the party is principally about political survival.” The source, who is a member of the party’s NEC, noted that comments by the Kaduna State Governor, Nasiru El-Rufai, and his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, in the run-up to the September 19th Edo State governorship election, were clear signals that the governors were determined to whittle down the influence of godfathers, which Tinubu and Oshiomhole appear to represent. At the height of the moves to ease him out of office, Oshiomhole pointedly accused governors of being behind the plot. In an interview with newsmen shortly after a meeting with Buhari at the Aso Rock Villa, on March 5, 2020, Oshiomhole said, “Let me also say that those behind this plot, the hands you saw which include; as you saw yesterday, you saw the Edo State governor and his people jubilating; …but there are other forces who see me for whatever reason as a threat to them. And those leading this anti-Oshiomhole campaign, some of them I emphasise, cannot even boast of a councillor in their states even as they lay claim to leadership position in our party.” Aware of murmurings among party members, the Buni-led panel initiated meetings with several critical party stakeholders to consult on its plans towards the party’s future. It has been an open secret that the committee will be seeking additional time to conclude its assignment during the next NEC meeting scheduled to hold on December 8th. This issue, political pundits have said, is one of the main reasons behind the series of meetings. The latest of such meetings was held with non-NWC NEC members about two Fridays ago. The meeting was attended by APC chairmen of all the 36 states of the federation including the Federal Capital Territory, a representative of the National Caretaker chairman and three state governors. The governors are: Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Abubakar Bagudu (Kebbi) and Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa). Former APC National Vice Chairman (North-East), Mustapha Salihu, who convened the meeting as Patron of the Association of APC State Chairmen, in an interview after the late-night meeting, expressed satisfaction with decisions taken so far by the Buni-led committee especially with regards to plans for the nationwide membership registration/revalidation exercise. Salihu said, “There are things you need to achieve before we get to that convention. First of all, like the registration, there is no party that will exist without standard registration. The (APC) constitution says we should update our register every six months. We are going to now do a general update and the revalidation of our own register which has been since 2014. “This is now the biggest mandate which this Caretaker Committee has after which we will now rejig this party. When we say rejig, we will do some reaffirmation from bottom to top which will now culminate into the convention.” It remains to be seen how far the party is willing to go to accommodate contending interests. Meanwhile, the party’s National Executive Committee will meet in Abuja on Tuesday where contending issues are expected to be discussed. It is not clear if the outcome of the meeting will calm fray nerves in the party as its different camps are strategising ahead of the 2023 general elections. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  