Olalekan Adetayo and Leke Baiyewu The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Wednesday said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has agreed to address Nigerians through the federal lawmakers on the security challenges confronting the nation. He said Buhari would address the lawmakers on the floor of the House of Representatives “in the nearest future.” Gbajabiamila disclosed this in an interview with State House correspondents after he led leaders of the House of Representatives to a meeting with Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said the purpose of the meeting was to convey the decision of the House to the President, adding that Buhari agreed to address the lawmakers on the security challenges. Recall that the House of Representatives had on Tuesday invited the President to appear on the floor of the parliament and explain the rising spate of insecurity in the country. The decision was based on a motion of urgent national importance moved by the Borno State caucus on the Saturday killing of 43 rice farmers in the state. Gbajabiamila said, “What we basically sought was to convey the resolution of the House and to fix a date which we did not fix out of respect for Mr President and his very tight schedule, what date will be convenient. “We have agreed on a date and he will meet with the House to address the situation. We have fixed a date but we will communicate with you. “He is a perfect democrat; he will come to the House to address members in the nearest future.” When asked how the President is feeling about the security challenges, Gbajabiamila said, “I think he is more concerned than me and you. Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown.” The Speaker explained that since all constituencies in the country were represented in the House of Representatives, Buhari’s address to the lawmakers can be taken as an address to the nation. Meanwhile, the Chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Benjamin Kalu, on Wednesday finding solution to the security challenges  was was more important than Buhari appearing before the lawmakers. Kalu at a press briefing said, “Inviting Mr President is not the only thing that was discussed at the plenary. What was discussed included asking Buhari to declare a state of emergency on security and, to me, that is more important. It is more important concerning what we intend to achieve. We want to give Mr President that leeway to be able to use other sources and mechanisms to solve the security problem of this country. “For example unless there’s a declaration of state of emergency on security, Mr President’s hand will be tied to do what the former President (Goodluck) Jonathan did, which was bringing in external help – the mercenaries and the rest of them. The constitution will not allow Mr President to act in this direction.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com