Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The management of the Abuja Metro light rail has said it would commence operations once the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 issues directives lifting the suspension on the train services. It explained that the Abuja metro railway service was suspended by the PTF due to the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus disease. Speaking during the presentation of a book on ‘Abuja Integrated Transport Plan: CCECC projects that recreated Capital City’s Economy,’ at the Airport Station Abuja, on Tuesday, the Executive Director, Afri-China Media Centre, Mr Ikenna Emewu, assured users that the shutdown order on the metro service would soon be lifted. Emewu was assisted at the book presentation by the Managing Director, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation Nigeria Ltd., Mr Michael Jiang; General Manager, media, CCECC, Mr Vincent Liu; Deputy Project Manager of Abuja Airport Station, Mr Jack Fly, amongst others. Emewu explained that the reopening of the metro service would make access to the airport from the city easier and quicker. According to him, the metro stations as an addition to the city transport system linking the city centre with the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport would also create access to the Idu Industrial Layout and Kubwa, a satellite town in Bwari Area Council. Emewu stated, “The Idu railway node makes for accessibility to the Abuja industrial district for ease of business and industrialization of Abuja. “The milestone of a new Abuja city transport system was made possible by the Federal Government, working in tandem with the government of the People’s Republic of China. [READ ALSO] Boko Haram: Why Buhari is keeping service chiefs –Garba Shehu “The dream of an integrated Abuja city transport system conceived in 2007 became a reality through the commitment of the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation.” Emewu observed that the 186-kilometre Abuja-Kaduna railway links has facilitated travel between the two cities and helped the local communities and other Nigerians in having “an enabler to better economy through employment and other gains.”