John Charles, Makurdi NO fewer than five persons that were killed in separate attacks in Katsina-Ala and Gwer West local government areas of Benue State on Sunday. In Naka, headquarters of Gwer West Local Government Area, two persons were reportedly killed in a cult war by factional groups. According to an eyewitness, who did not want to be mentioned, members of rival cult groups, around 1:00am on Sunday, stormed the High Level area of the town and shot indiscriminately, killing two persons and injured many others. The gunshots were said to have heightened tension in the area which caused residents to scamper for safety. Thinking that herdsmen were responsible for the attack, many residents were said to have run into the bushes. “It was the indiscriminate gunshots that woke many of us; some of us thought the attackers were herdsmen. This made some of us to take to our heels when we heard the gunshots. “We slept in the bush till this (Sunday) morning. By the time we returned, we heard that two persons were killed while others were injured,” the source said. In Katsina Ala, where three persons were killed, the attackers killed a man, wife and their kid. The attackers were said to have stormed the home of a politician in the town where they killed the family of three. The assailants, it was gathered, attacked the Nagu community; the country home of  Ianna Jato in Katsina-Alla town where three persons were killed, houses burnt and property destroyed. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Catherine Anene, who confirmed the report, said the incident happened around 1am on Sunday. He said, “On 27/12/2020, at about 1am, a gunshot was heard in High Level area of Naka town and police officers were deployed in the area. “Two persons were arrested at the scene of the crime, while two young men were found in a pool of blood. Victims were rushed to hospital but confirmed dead.” Anene disclosed further that five more suspects had been arrested in connection with the attack in Naka, adding that investigation was already in progress. The PPRO also confirmed the attack by gunmen in Kastina-Ala town, where she said three persons; a man, his wife and their child, were killed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 