Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr Ibrahim Magu, on Friday told civil servants that coming late to government offices was corruption and a practice that must be stopped. Magu noted that Nigerian women and children were the most vulnerable to the evils of corruption, adding that the Federal Government would continue to guard against “illicit financial flows.” The EFCC boss spoke in Abuja during a nationwide rally held by the anti-corruption agency, the National Youth Service Corps, the Ministry of Women Affairs and the Ministry of Youths and Sports Development. Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare, his colleague in the Ministry of Women Affairs, Mrs Paulen Tallen, and the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Ayuba Wabba, were among the dignitaries who participated in the rally in Abuja. Magu said, “Women and children own the future of this country. They are the most vulnerable when it comes to corruption. You are victims. We are victims. That is why we call on you to stand tall in the fight against corruption and illicit financial flow. You must learn to protect your future. “It is our responsibility to take away this evil. I am surprised that by this time, at 10.30 am, only less than 10 per cent of the civil servants are in the government offices. You can check the Federal Secretariat premises where we are standing – only less than 10 per cent are in office. It is unfortunate. It is part of corruption. “The Nigerian government and the President have approved and we have taken a common position on assets’ recovery and returns. This is what we are doing in the fight against corruption and financial flows. We must not allow corruption to ruin this country.” However, Dare said, “The youths are out on the streets in solidarity to march against corruption. The message should sound clear in the churches, mosques, civil service and everywhere that the youth of this country commit themselves to be foot soldiers and ambassadors against corruption.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com