Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senate has made a case for mandatory health insurance scheme for all Nigerians. Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe, made the call during a one-day public hearing to get stakeholders’ inputs into two health insurance-related bills, in Abuja, on Monday. One of the proposed legislations is titled, “A bill for an act to repeal the National Health Insurance Scheme Act 2004, and to enact the National Health Insurance Commission Bill 2019.” The second is, “A bill for an Act to provide for the Enhancement and Regulation of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services, Protect Persons with Mental Health Needs.” Listed among the provisions of the second bill is the establishment of National Commission for Mental and Substance Abuse Services for effective management of mental health in Nigeria and other related matters 2019. Oloriegbe, explained that the current NHIS only provided for optional health insurance in Nigeria. The lawmaker said, “The poverty rate in Nigeria is about 35 per cent of the population which translates to mean that well over 60 million Nigerians are living below the poverty line. “This group of people cannot afford insurance premium, yet we cannot allow them to suffer for health care services.” He explained that the proposed bill comprised nine parts and 79 clauses. According to Oloriegbe, the bill makes provision for the establishment of the National Health Insurance Commission, its governing council and its functions. On the National Mental Health Bill 2019, he said, the bill was auspicious and appropriate for addressing the glowing number of suicide deaths in Nigeria. Oloriegbe attributed most of the reported cases of suicides to substance abuse, mental balance and non-availability of services to control substance abuse. This bill, he said, “contains 12 parts, 74 sections and seeks to provide direction for coherent, natural and unified response to challenges relating to delivery of mental health and substance abuse in Nigeria.” Stakeholders in the health sector including, the Nigerian Medical Association, Health Maintenance Organisations, officials of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Scheme also submitted memoranda during the hearing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 