Dayo Ojerinde and Ife Oyerinde The Provost of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Dr Ademola Azeez, has advised new students of the college to exhibit discipline, loyal and honest character during their stay in the institution. Azeez gave the advice on Thursday during the matriculation of 1,051 students into the college. He said, “Energy wasted in the pursuit of unlawful gains or destructive union activities is tantamount to misplaced priorities and contribute to lowering of education standards. “You should therefore combine both academic and moral excellence during your years of studentship in the college. You should refrain from acts which are contrary to rules and regulations of the college in order not to jeopardise the realisation of your life ambitions.” Reacting to the reason for the low number of matriculating students, the provost said it was unfortunate that more emphasis was placed on university education in the country. “The requirements for admitting students into the College of Education (technical) is not the conventional admission requirements; that is partly one of the reasons we have low enrolment. Naturally, students want to go to the university first and when they don’t get admission there they come back to the college of education. “The problem is not with the college, but a national problem. Everyone wants their children to go for university education first, but when it is unavailable they come to the college of education. “The committee of federal provost and the union leaders are working on how to attract and encourage more students to join the college of education. The simple way we can do so is to amend the Act that established the college of education in Nigeria and also give all the colleges the mandate to run full-fledged degree programmes without affiliating with any university,” Azeez said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 