Seun Adesoye The maiden edition of the West Africa Agribusiness Show, an exhibition to benefit stakeholders from all sectors in agribusiness, will hold at Landmark Centre, Lagos, between February 18 and 20. The WAAS team revealed at a press conference on Tuesday that the show was with the theme, “Accelerating Food Revolution in Nigeria.” The Chief Convener, WAAS, Idowu Isenuga, said the show was created for stakeholders to connect and share ideas, as well as to see and experience the latest in equipment, supplies, and services deployed in the production and processing of agriculture-related products. Isenuga said, “It is my belief that the new experiences which participants will gain in the course of this show will lead to a major boost in further creation and improved management of existing small, medium and large-scale farming concerns in the different areas of agriculture. “This show will bring together stakeholders from across West Africa in order not to only attract new prospects in agribusiness but to also make West Africa an investment hub for the agricultural and allied sectors. We will also be sharing ideas on the best way to solving Africa’s toughest challenges relating to food sufficiency and the growth of agribusiness on the continent.” Isenuga also said the theme of the show was chosen “because we believe that we need to change the pace at which agribusiness and productivity are being enhanced within the sector. “Our population is accelerating really fast but our food productivity isn’t growing at the same rate. The only way we can change the paradigm is if we collaborate and co-operate with other stakeholders to see how we can accelerate our current level of productivity.” The Project Lead, WAAS, Ope Ladipo, said the event was open to both genders and encouraged Nigerians interested in agribusiness to make the most out of the event due to the abundance of resources that would be available through the duration of the event. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com