Afeez Hanafi A pupil of Bishops Phillip Academy, Ibadan, Oyo State, Tobias Sunday, is currently battling an illness which has forced him to stop schooling. The 19-year-old senior secondary school pupil is suffering from Angioedema which has made his jaw and tongue become swollen. It was learnt that Sunday withdrew from school last year when the ailment which started sometime March 2019 weighed him down. The teenager now has difficulty eating and talking, groaning with pains every time. His elder brother, Chimaobi, told our correspondent on Friday that the family had spent all they had on Sunday’s treatment, adding that he had earlier undergone a surgery which was not successful. He said, “My younger brother has problem in the jaw and tongue. The illness started gradually in March last year like a fever and he could no longer eat. We were later told at the hospital that it is angioedema. “He underwent an operation in January in Ibadan but after the operation, his condition became worse. We then took him to Ondo Teaching Hospital. We were told that the doctor who did the surgery didn’t do it well. He cannot swallow food except water and tea.” Chimaobi stated that some drugs were prescribed for Sunday on Thursday at the Ondo Teaching Hospital, preparatory for another surgery. “The doctor said he would put the drugs in the water he would be drinking before the next surgery. We have exhausted all the money we had and the operation would cost about N450, 000. “We need help. My brother has stopped school since his tongue swelled up last year. His classmates are now in SS2,” he added. Meanwhile, a bank account – UBA: 2145839840, Tobias Sunday Daniels – has been opened for donations to aid the treatment of the ailing pupil. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 