As an entertainer, do you think there is a similarity between acting and sports? Of course yes. They are both entertainment, they bring joy, pleasure to the society. Generally and globally, sports is regarded as entertainment. Did you engage in sports while growing up? Yes, while growing up I was good at running. I was involved in athletics while in primary and secondary schools. But I grew older, I began to lose a bit of interest in running and sports. But as a kid I was a very good runner and athlete. As an adult now, do you engage actively in any sport? No, I don’t engage actively in sports anymore. As an adult now, I’ve got a tight schedule to keep, so there isn’t much time for an active sporting life. But I love to swim at my own leisure time, when I’m free. I’m also a good swimmer. Are you a fan of the Super Eagles? Yes, I am a huge fan of the Super Eagles, I support them whenever they are playing. Do you support any other football club? I do. In Africa, Enyimba are my favourites. I love to watch them play. They have a good team at the moment and are always a feared force in Africa. I can’t forget the period they won the CAF Champions League back-to-back to become the first and only Nigerian club to ever win the trophy. In  Europe, Manchester United are my team. As far as I’m concerned, they are the best club in England despite their present poor form. But I strongly believe they will bounce back soon. Tell us about your favourite footballers? Right now I don’t have a favourite footballer. But I quite like a bunch of them from Cristiano Ronaldo to Lionel Messi, Paul Pogba, Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and others. It will be very difficult for me to pick the best amongst these great footballers, so I will prefer to just watch them play. Between Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, who’s your favourite footballer in terms of looks? I like them both but I think Cristiano Ronaldo is a lot cuter than Messi. Which Eagles star do you consider as the most handsome? A lot of them are very cute, so I don’t want to be drawn into any comparison. A report quoted you as saying you have a soft spot for Mikel Obi, the former Super Eagles captain. Is this true? Someone made that up, probably a journalist. I never said anything like that. Have you had a crush on any sports personality before? I don’t really have a crush on the current footballers. Most of these footballers are just boys. My mates are no longer in the field. If you had a chance to pick a football star as husband, who will that player be? The football players right now are kids to me, so they are not sexually appealing to me except you are talking about their uncles. What is your take on female footballers? I love female footballers, but the game needs more awareness and support in this part of the world. The Super Falcons also need attention; they’ve got talented players who can rule the world with the right management. That will also encourage other girls to take football as a career. Would you say your big boobs prevented you from doing sports? I never planned to make a career out of sports, so I can’t tell. But I believe if I had wanted to become a sportswoman, it wouldn’t have been a problem. If reincarnation is real, would you want to relinquish your boobs for sports in the next world? Never! But the only thing I would have told my younger self would be not to give a damn about people’s opinion, just be yourself and be law-abiding. Would you encourage your kids to go into sports? I will encourage them to be whatever they wish to be as long they will be financially independent in the part they choose. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   