Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, on Thursday lamented that the North had become an epicentre of violence. Dogara said this at the Northern Security Meeting organised by the Dr Usman Bugaje-led Arewa Research and Development Project. He said there was an urgent need to arrest the deteriorating state of insecurity in the region. The meeting was convened to inaugurate the Northern Security Monitoring Committee. He lamented that Nigeria had suffered too much from Boko Haram ISWAP, led by Albarnawi, Boko Haram and the farmers/herders’ conflict, banditry, kidnapping, ethno-religious conflicts and cattle rustling. He noted that out of the 19 northern states, only Kwara State and the Federal Capital Territory were relatively peaceful. The former speaker said, “We are confronted with a crisis that is unparalleled in our history. The death spiral appears unstoppable. Increasingly, it is becoming harder and harder to distinguish us from our enemies. “There was no shortage of early warning signs and, as a matter of fact, our philosophers such as the late Sa’adu Zungur of blessed memory had warned that this dystopian era was fast approaching but we ignored all. We are now paying for our collective negligence. “As it is, we are now trapped in a prison of mirrors, where revealed lies are answered with new lies. With all these, it’s like our slow-motion walk to self-apocalypse is assured.” Dogara added that 18 states were inflamed by one form of violence or the other, saying all were “guilty of waiting for the government to solve all the problems.” He said, “A peaceful and orderly northern Nigeria then was more engaged in the pursuit of justice rather than pursuit of order. In tackling these problems, we must realise that guns do not kill and killing the violent does not necessarily bring peace except peace of the grave. “Violence is taking root because our leadership model has been exposed as a lie, an empty ideology used to satiate greed instead of addressing social inequality and injustice.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   