Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji  Sa’ad Abubakar, on Thursday blamed the northern elites for allowing some youths to float “what they called Operation Shege Ka Fasa.” He urged the regional leaders to caution the youths. The Sultan spoke at a Northern Security Meeting in Kaduna on Thursday. The Coalition of Northern Groups had unveiled the symbol of the security outfit on Wednesday in Kaduna. Sultan said, “I saw it on the television, and the media gave them attention. Now, the elders allowed these youths to go forward. So, the elites are our problems, the elders are our problems. If the elders don’t take the lead, the youth will do whatever they like and think they are right. You have to caution these youths by giving them good leadership. “Now, they have launched their own security outfit I don’t know what they call it, Shege Ka Fasa’, meaning what? “So, I want to call on northern elders to caution them. Don’t allow these youths to take over leadership from you. You have to reach out to everybody no matter how low the person is. So, I think we need to take the bull by the horns and not allow the youths take over responsibility. I think we need to do that and much more.” [READ ALSO] Amotekun: Recruitment forms ready next week, says Akeredolu He asked the governors of the northern states to tackle the security challenges in the region. Abubakar also expressed concern over the 50,000 orphans in the region as a result of the Boko Haram insurgency. Sultan, who is the Nigerian Muslims spiritual leader, said if nothing was done about the orphans, they would turn out to be worse than Boko Haram. “Several recommendations have been made but are not implemented and as they remain unimplemented, we will continue to suffer the consequences.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 