’Femi Asu Savannah Petroleum Plc says Accugas has entered into a new interruptible gas sales agreement with First Independent Power Limited, a subsidiary of Sahara Group, in relation to the provision of gas sales to the FIPL Afam power plant. The British firm, which recently concluded the acquisition of Seven Energy International Limited, bought an 80 per cent interest in the Accugas midstream business. According to the statement, Afam has a current power generation capacity of 180 megawatts, and the new deal envisages the supply of gas (produced by Uquo, with a maximum daily nominated quantity of 35 million standard cubic feet of gas per day) by Accugas to FIPL Afam. It said the additional supply would augment its existing gas supply on an interruptible basis for an initial term of one year with the ability to extend upon mutual agreement. Savannah Petroleum said securing an additional gas supplier to the FIPL Afam plant was another demonstration of FIPL’s commitment to its vision of being a stable power generation, significantly contributing to the national grid. According to the statement, the commercial terms of the FIPL IGSA are expected to augment the weighted average profitability of the Accugas portfolio while Accugas’ sales volumes, revenues and cash flows are expected to increase with no incremental capital expenditure. It said Accugas continued to make good progress in relation to gas supply to several other potential new customers. The Chief Executive Officer, Savannah Petroleum, Andrew Knott, said, “I am delighted to announce the IGSA with FIPL, representing the first new gas sales agreement that the Accugas business has signed in over five years, and we look forward to partnering with the Sahara Group, who have notable experience with energy and infrastructure projects in Africa. “We are confident that this will be the first of several new gas sales agreements signed over the course of 2020 and, through Accugas, we aim to be seen as the gas supplier of choice to the power sector in Nigeria.” The Group Managing Director, Sahara Power Group, Kola Adesina, said, the company was  delighted to be working with Accugas on this project. “It is another demonstration of our commitment to bringing energy to life by facilitating economic activities through our power business. “We remain resolute in our vision to enhance access to sustainable energy in Nigeria and ultimately, across Africa.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 