Sunday Aborisade, Abuja Amechi and Obeagu Awkunanaw communities in Enugu South Local Government Area,Enugu State,  on Tuesday  protested against the acquisition of a vast expanse of  in their by the state government  over 30 years ago. They alleged that the land, which is about 1,097 hectares,  had been reallocated to one  Kingsley Eze. Leaders of the communities, who spoke to  journalists in Abuja on Tuesday, said the land was  reportedly earmarked for the construction of the permanent site of the Enugu State University of Science and Technology. They said  Amechi and Obeagu  had taken legal action  against Eze and his company, Private Estates International West Africa Limited,  and  the state government. Ozor Nnaji, who spoke on behalf of the two towns, alleged that the acquisition of the land did not follow due process. He said, “The so-called  Enugu State University of Science and Technology (Plan EN(A)594) purported to have been made in 1985 is unreal, invalid and could not really have been made in 1985. “This is  because Enugu as a state was created in 1991 and there couldn’t have been an Enugu State University preceding its creation. “Both the purported 1985 Enugu State University of Science and Technology (PLAN EN(A)594) and the so-called Anambra State of Nigeria Official Gazette No.12 Vol. II of 27th March, 1986 are unreal, invalid and were possibly fabricated in 2009. “Since these documents did not have the signature of then-governor of Anambra State, Sampson Omeruo, all such documents being paraded are invalid, null and void. “Any purported acquisition, title, agreement and or Certificate of Occupancy made and or predicated on the purported 1985 Enugu State University of Science and Technology (PLAN EN(A)594), when as it were, Enugu State was not in existence, is invalid, null and void as you can’t hang something on nothing and expect it to stand.” However, Eze, who was alleged to have benefitted from the land deal, said  the people should channel their grievances to the state government. He told journalists that  state government would be in a better position to explain the issues surrounding the land acquisition. Eze said since the land in question had already been revoked by the government and that there was nothing he could do. He said,  “There are processes in the acquisition of land. You gazette and do all of that. “A land was allocated around 1986 and they are coming back to contend that it was done illegally after over 30 years? How do I even respond to that?” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com