Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Emerging Homeland Development Limited, developers of Silver Spring Residence, has said the Ibeju Lekki neigbourhood has witnessed massive growth at a fast pace. The firm said the growth had been induced by developments around the area and projected to spur international attraction due to the Dangote refinery and the commencement of construction of the Lekki Deep Seaport, among others. The firm made this known while announcing its Silver Spring Residence Phase ll project, following the completion and success of Silver Spring Residence Phase I. According to the firm, the proposed gated estate, envisaged to offer promising investment value, is located at the Lekki Free Trade Zone, dubbed the new Lagos with efficient road network, lagoon water transport to Lekki and Victoria Island, a proposed Epe International Airport as well as a new 10km road connecting Lagos to Ondo State. “Silver Spring Residence I has turned out to be a great investment deal for its initial buyers, as Nigerians in Diaspora seeking a trusted investment opportunity, corporate firms, retirees and even first-time land buyers alike have seen their investment grow to about 40 per cent within a space of nine months,” the firm said in a statement. It added that Silver Spring Residence Phase II had been modelled without any compromise in quality to create a world-class community with sophisticated amenities. The Chief Executive Officer of Emerging Homeland Developments Limited, Mr Adekunle Owoeye, said the company was committed to creating efficient communities with potential investment opportunities. “Silver Spring Residence Phase II is an innovative scheme for property investors and discerning buyers because it has a potential high return on investment,” he said. He said the estate would be designed to have amenities to create a livable and luxurious environment while still being the cheapest estate of its kind with legitimate title. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   