Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Consumers of electricity have condemned the rejection of power by distribution companies and called on the Federal Government to intervene in the matter. Also, the Nigerian Electricity Consumers Advocacy Network stated that latest findings by the group showed that power distribution capacity had dropped by about 5,000 megawatts since the sector was privatised in 2013. On Monday, The PUNCH exclusively reported that power distribution companies rejected a total of 5,451.05 megawatts of electricity between January 13 and January 19, 2020. The report, which was based on industry figures obtained by our correspondent in Abuja, stated that the Discos rejected electricity on each of the stated days despite the lack of power in various locations across the country. It was gathered that on January 13, 14, 15 and 16, the power firms rejected 1,265.96MW, 855.43MW, 800.52MW and 213.05MW of electricity respectively. On January 17, it was observed that of the 11 Discos operating in Nigeria, only Kaduna Disco rejected electricity load of 37.44MW, while the other 10 power distributors accepted a cumulative excess load allocation of 698.5MW. But on January 18 and 19, the 11 Discos again rejected 1,006.14MW and 1,272.51MW of electricity respectively. Reacting to the development on behalf of power users, the Secretary-General, NECAN, Uket Obonga, stated that it was high time the government called the Discos to order. He said, “Our findings showed that before the privatisation of the power sector in 2013, the installed capacity for distribution stood at 9,000MW. But now they are shutting down the lines, rejecting electricity load and putting Nigerians in darkness. “It is a big issue and we are preparing a document that we will send to the committee spearheaded by Governor Nasir El-rufai to look into this issue. This is because there are a lot of issues that need to be addressed.” Obonga stated that further findings by the group showed that generation power capacity had increased from 5,000MW to 8,000MW, but stressed that this could not be distributed as a result of the poor distribution systems across the country. “They (Discos) know about this and they are gearing up to implement an increase in tariff. We were able to know this because we are in the system and have been working hard to find out what is really going on,” he stated. Obonga added, “One of the macro-economic parameters that should determine MYTO (Multi Year Tariff Order) setting, for instance, is the generation capacity that is available. Our findings showed that generation capacity has gone up considerably from what it was before the privatisation of the sector. “We observed that generation capacity has increased from about 5,000MW to 8,000MW. This is the situation. But instead of increasing their capacity, the distribution companies are not doing so.” The Managing Director, TCN, Usman Mohammed, had told our correspondent in Abuja that load rejection by Discos was not only affecting the national grid negatively, but was hampering the progress that should be recorded in the power sector. But the complaint by the Discos had been that often times they did not get power allocated to locations where they needed it the most. This, according to them, had also made it tough for Discos to accept electricity load deposited in areas where they less needed it, especially when it was difficult to recoup revenue from such locations. “It will be incorrect to say Discos are not increasing their capacities to distribute power. But as for load rejection, it is best to receive power in areas where you can recoup your revenue than in locations where you have people who will not pay,” an official of a Disco told our correspondent in confidence. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com