Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi On-demand transportation platform, Bolt, has said it would empower more Nigerians this year and beyond to help reduce unemployment. The firm said since 2016, when it began operations in the country, tens of thousands of drivers had joined Bolt in 11 cities across Nigeria with Abeokuta and Enugu being the most recently launched operations. “The new decade is still fresh and with it comes new aspirations and goals to make a better life. Whether you are looking to secure the bag or make more money on the side in 2020, Bolt, the leading on-demand transportation platform is a good way to increase your earnings,” the firm said in a statement. It added that when people sign up to become Bolt drivers, they get to work around a flexible schedule and weekly payouts. “So you do not have to wait till the end of the month to get paid, hence, allowing you earn as you work,” the Country Manager, Femi Akin-Laguda said. Akin-Laguda said, “Bolt offers unbeatable earnings for drivers with top drivers earning from taking rides and generous bonuses. In December 2019 and January 2020, drivers on Bolt platform paid as low as zero per cent in commission depending on their activities on the platform with more bonus schemes planned for the future. “The default commission Bolt takes is significantly lower than what competitors take, making Bolt the go-to platform that allows drivers pay less while they make more money.” He said the platform’s drive to empower more individuals financially this year, was part of its efforts to provide a hassle-free way for Nigerians to profit and legitimately make money using their cars. According to him, Bolt, formerly known as Taxify, is committed to its mission of making urban transportation more convenient and affordable for Nigerians whilst providing flexible employment opportunities to thousands of drivers and vehicle owners. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   