Samson Folarin Policemen in three trucks on Friday stormed the Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi, Lagos, to stop the ongoing protest by the workers against the controversial doctorate of the acting Director-General, Chima Igwe. City Round gathered that the men arrived on the premises around 8am. “They are everywhere, heavily armed. They got the Chief Security Officer to open the admin block shut by the union leaders,” a source told our correspondent on the phone. Our correspondent also obtained clips and photos of the policemen as they move round the agency. Some of the cops were stationed in front of the administrative block. Igwe, 57, is in the eye of the storm more than 18 years after claiming to have bagged a doctorate from the Universite d’Abomey-Calavi, Benin Republic, without a certificate to show for it. He had been promoted several times based on the claim, which became contentious after he was appointed the acting director-general in May 2019. Several ultimatums given to him by the governing board to produce the certificate ended without any result, as the matter also became a subject of investigation by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission. The board objected to his appointment because of the issue. But the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, rejected their recommendation. After the ICPC delayed in releasing the outcome of its investigation, our correspondent visited the university and was informed that Igwe had yet to complete his studies. The ICPC later cleared Igwe, saying he duly obtained the certificate. When the school, in another interview, denied giving any government agency such information, the anti-graft agency said it had reopened investigation into the matter. Two weeks ago, workers at FIIRO started a protest led by their union leaders to call for the suspension of Igwe in accordance with extant public service rules. The protesters also accused the minister, Onu, of shielding Igwe, as the latter was reported to have been frequenting the ministry’s office at Abuja since the crisis started. Our correspondent learnt that the governing board held a three hour meeting with Onu last Tuesday to make him see reasons to act urgently. However, union leaders received summonses from the Lagos State Police Command on Wednesday, as operatives of the Department of State Services also interrogated them on Thursday. The security agents were alleged to be acting on the directive of the minister. On Friday, three trucks filled with policemen went to the institute. “Igwe did not come to FIIRO with the policemen; we learnt that he lied to them that his life was being threatened and union leaders were forcing people to protest against him,” an official of the institute said. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said he would call back to respond. He had yet to do so as of press time. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com