Fisayo Odumuyiwa Some market men and women on Tuesday stormed the Lagos State House of Assembly to protest against an alleged plan by the Chairman of Ojodu Local Council Development Area, Olumuyiwa Oloro, to demolish the Alhaja Abibatu Mogaji Sunday Retail Market. The aggrieved marketers, while singing solidarity songs, appealed to the Speaker of the Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, and other lawmakers to intervene. The protesters urged the House to use its influence to stop the planned demolition, saying many families could be affected. The Iyaloja of the market, Mrs Kuburat Salako, said the traders were surprised when the chairman announced that the market would be demolished and turned to a parking lot by a developer, Mr Kehinde Fajana, of Elizier Nigeria Limited. “This market has been in existence since 1989 and was commissioned by Chief Mariam Babangida in her bid for a better life for rural dwellers. Please don’t take our source of income away from us. “We plead with the respective ministries, agencies and respected honourables to please free our market because it is a public market for all local governments in Lagos State,” Salako added. The Iyaloja of Odo Eran, Mrs. Yemisi Ogunlaja, said, “We are here on behalf of the people of Abibatu Mogaji Sunday Retail Market. This demolition will affect many families and their means of livelihood. “It will be painful if this market is demolished because the Alhaja Abibatu Mogaji Sunday Market and Ogba Retail Market are two different markets with different commodities, items and serving different purposes.” Addressing the protesters, the lawmaker representing Ikeja Constituency 2, Ademola Kasumu, urged them to conduct themselves peacefully, assuring that the House would look into the matter. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com