IN a country notorious for the incompetence of its institutions, three Nigerian agencies appear to be bucking the trend in the area of early warning. Through shrill alerts, research findings and actionable advisories, the Nigerian Meteorological Agency, the Nigerian Hydrological Services Agency and the Nigerian Emergency Management Agency have put everyone, especially the federal, states and local governments, on notice to prepare for heavy rainfall and possible floods this year. The onus is on the three tiers of government and other stakeholders to heed the warning and ward off avoidable disasters. Nigerians and the various levels of government have a poor track-record in preparing for the inevitable quirks of nature, leading to avoidable loss of lives and property and damage to the economy. The latest missive from the NIHSA, however, demands an attitudinal change. NIMET forecasts that the southern states will start experiencing rainfall, beginning from February 24, which will not abate until December. In the North, the showers will begin on June 22 and last four months, ending in September. Just how serious this portends is evident in the fact that the rains fell for a shorter period in 2019, yet wreaked considerable havoc in many parts of the country. Between June and October last year, torrential rainfall and flash floods affected 124 local government areas across the country and the Federal Capital Territory, with 117 casualties and 130,610 persons displaced, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies reported. As NIMET, NEMA and other national and multilateral agencies have repeatedly admonished, the three tiers of government “should stop resorting to fire brigade approach,” acting only after the rains had started. Instead, they could utilise the current dry season, which experts describe as the best time, to pre-empt flooding. A stakeholders’ summit in September 2019 emphasised that rainfall did not need to result in disastrous flood if adequate pre-emptive measures were put in place. Flooding has been a global problem, aggravated in the last two decades by the effects of climate change and global warming, causing an average of 100 deaths and over $40 billion in economic damage each year, says the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. A growing number of communities — both coastal and inland — are finding themselves underwater. Extreme weather, sea level rise, and other climate change impacts are increasingly to blame. Experts report that hardly any urban area in the humid tropics is safe from floods that occur at frequent intervals along rivers but also far away from them. When heavier-than-usual rainfall occurs, dams or levees rupture or, in cooler regions, ice or snow melts and flash floods result. The effects, as tabulated by the respected journal, National Geographic, include destruction of lives, farmland, buildings, roads, railways and power infrastructure. They also increase the danger of communicable water-borne diseases like typhoid, diarrhoea and cholera. While several regions and countries have witnessed floods caused by tornadoes, storms and tsunami, flooding in Nigeria has been triggered, according to NIHSA, mainly by rainfall and overflowing rivers, blocked drainage, poor town planning that allows buildings on flood plains, river embankments, drainage channels, poor land reclamation and weak and un-enforced sanitation laws by states and LGs. Spared cataclysmic natural phenomena like storms, therefore, the challenge in Nigeria is the human factor. Unlike the response to the United States’ state of California where all its 58 counties (LGAs) have experienced flood disasters in the 20 years to 2019, China, where millions of persons have died over the ages or the India/Pakistan region where in 2014, floods destroyed 2,550 villages, claimed 557 lives, pre-emptive measures are inadequate in Nigeria. Appropriate measures should be outlined to end the self-inflicted disasters. Apart from clearing of drains, especially in coastal – and therefore flood-prone – states like Lagos, Bayelsa and Rivers, other states in the South-South region, by the state governments, LGs, private concerns and communities, the Nigerian Association for Engineering Geology recommends effective town planning and strict enforcement of environmental regulations and by-laws. State and local officials should enforce sanitation to end the widespread practice of dumping waste in gutters, canals and water bodies, especially plastic bottles and sachets. With blocked drainage, even a light rainfall often results in flash floods, blocking roads, overwhelming buildings and spreading diseases. The over 200 dams in the country – 56 of them rather large – should be well maintained to avoid cracks and collapse, the type that occurred on the banks of the Ogunpa River in Ibadan, Oyo State in 1980, that left over 200 persons dead. Similarly, the Kagara floods of September 2010 destroyed farmland in 11 LGAs in Sokoto State, killed 49 persons, displaced another 130,000 and submerged about 50 villages. When the Bagauda Lake Dam collapsed due to poor maintenance in 1988, the resulting floods killed 142 persons, destroyed 18,000 homes, and swept away 14,000 farms in the present day Kano and Jigawa states. There can be no excuse therefore for avoidable floods this year: the Federal Government should ensure the integrity of its dams, fund and equip NEMA and ensure that riverbanks are well-secured. It should step up collaborative diplomatic efforts with the country’s neighbours as the release of water from other African countries also triggers floods in Nigeria. Greater responsibility for preventive measures lies with state and local authorities: they should use the window provided by the dry season to ensure the clearance of gutters, channels and drainage; laws should be vigorously enforced, refuse properly cleared and disposed of and riverbanks, dams and levees secured. The forecast of prolonged rainfall will require the evacuation of people from flood plains at the onset of rains and the provision of temporary camps for those who have no alternative place of refuge. In the long term, federal, states and LGs need to adopt and enforce global best practices in physical and town planning, imbibe ingenious water management practices such as provision of adequate water supply networks to discourage the widespread sinking of boreholes that damage the soil and embrace latest technology-driven environmental protection measures to preserve water bodies. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 