Peter Dada, Akure The founder of Sotitobire Praising Chapel, Akure, Alfa Babatunde, on Thursday was denied bail by the state High Court sitting in Akure, the state capital. Hundreds of followers and worshippers of the church, who stormed the court premises to witness the proceedings and waited for his bail were disappointed as he was taken back to the Olokuta Correctional Centre, Akure. The High Court on Thursday began hearing of the case of Babatunde and six others, who were standing trial for the disappearance of one-year-old Gold Kolawole, who was allegedly abducted in the church. Kolawole was allegedly abducted during a Sunday service in November 2019 and his whereabouts had remained unknown. The pastor and other defendants were arrested and arraigned by the police on six counts. They were later remanded in prison by the court. On the first hearing of the case at the High Court, the defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them by the police. The Director of Public Prosecutions, Mrs Bola Joel-Okudadegbe, asked the court for a short adjournment to enable her to prepare the seven witnesses listed for the case. Also, the counsel for the first defendant, Mr Olusola Oke, made efforts on the bail applications of the defendants. But the DPP opposed the prayers on the grounds that there were many applications in that respect. After the arguments from the counsel, the trial judge, Justice Olusegun Odusoka, promised to give the case accelerated hearing and adjourned till March 16,17 and 19, 2020 for further hearing. The defendants were later returned to prison. The defence counsel, Olusola Oke, who spoke to journalists after proceedings, urged all security agencies involved in the matter to do a thorough investigation for truth and justice to prevail. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com