Samuel Awoyinfa Flour Mills Nigeria Plc has presented delivery trucks to its top distributors in a bid to facilitate the movement of its products across the country and boost trade. The Managing Director, Foods Division, FMN, Mr Devlin Hainsworth, at the presentation, noted that there was a need to address the challenges of logistics in the manufacturing sector in order to boost productivity, improve the supply chain network, enhance local capacity while also ensuring returns on investment. He explained that the presentation was to mark a new chapter and the biggest future ahead, while it commended the dealers for their hardwork and support for the company. He said, “What makes us different is our long-term and innovative approach to partnership. “We have a dynamic and interdependent relationship with our partners and this has resulted in the sustained growth of our businesses.” He added that the company was also celebrating its 60 years of feeding the nation by recognising the relationship with its key dealers. “We have grown with the country for 60 years. So the award underscores the commitment to continue to develop our relationship with our key dealers as we feed our nation everyday, which is what FMN does. “We have made breakthrough in partnership, breakthrough in fulfilling our promises and that is why we are presenting the trucks to our customers.” The National Sales Operation Manager, FMN, Business to Business, Mr Jeevan Bansal, said the delivery trucks would go a long way to enhance the supply chain network of distribution. He said the trucks would enable the distributors to move from passive distributors to more active distributors with market engagement. The highpoint of the event was final presentation of 30-tonne delivery trucks to five distributors by the managing director, foods division. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   