Oyewole Oyindamola, 24, is the CEO of a catering outfit, Oakley Foods. She talks to TOLUWALOPE KAREEM about life as a young entrepreneur What is your educational background? I had my elementary education at Joade Private School, Lagos Island. I also attended Longford International School for my junior secondary education and Lagos State Model College, Igbonla, for my senior secondary education. Both schools are in Lagos. I studied Mass Communication at Bowen University. Do you have any corporate work experience? I had an internship in a radio station for six months. How did you come about the food business? I majorly make pastries and noodles. I am a lover of food, though I don’t eat much. But, I like to try different recipes and make experiments with food. So, I thought if I could make it a source of income, I would be eating more. Moreover, I had tried other businesses such as fashion designing and make-up artistry but they didn’t yield as much returns as food business. What was the inspiration for the business? There was no big inspiration for the business other than me thinking I could do it and I started it. Primarily, my love for food made me go into the business. How long have you been in the business? I have been in the business for two years now. By God’s grace, it’s going to be bigger than my expectations. What have been the major highlights of the business? There hasn’t been any major highlight but the business is very interesting and I have a lot of beautiful memories. I get to meet different people daily. I have also had the opportunity of travelling around for events. In relating with new people every day, I have been able to discover myself and potential. The major highlights for me would be customers’ satisfaction. What’s a good business if you cannot satisfy your customer? I am always delighted when I get accolades and satisfactory comments from my customers. It pushes me to do more for myself. When I receive complaints too, I make sure I look into them and solve the problems. What are some of the challenges you’ve faced over the years? There is no business without challenges, but I have been able to manage them and create solutions. My major challenge is the transportation system in the country but I don’t let it drag down my business. Also, it could be tough trying to be different from other people in the business and still maintain one’s customers, because there is a lot of competition out there and one cannot afford to be shaken. Food business is really lucrative and that is why it is easy for price inflation to come in, because people would always eat. How do you get customers? We have a shop in Ikeja which is always open. We also do social media and radio advertisement. Do you have plans to seek paid employment? As things are going right now, I do not think I would be considering that. What do you think makes you stand out from other similar businesses out there? What makes me stand out is that I’m very accessible, affordable, available and reachable. To become even better at what I do, I would be attending a culinary school soon to ensure that my customers get the best delicacies and services. What is your recipe for success? That would be Almighty Allah and my mother. Without those two, there would be no me. I am forever grateful to them. Where do you see yourself and business in the next five years? Only God can be the judge of that. In the next five years, I know that I would be in a better place. How profitable is the business? Depending on the period (of the year) but on the average, it is very profitable. People would always go hungry and definitely need to satisfy their cravings. What piece of advice do you have for other entrepreneurs who are just starting out? It is important for them to know that one must start from somewhere. In the beginning, it never seems easy but they should pushing and not give up. They should just do their thing and hope for God’s grace. When you are not working, what do you do? I am always working. My business runs every day. Therefore, if I am not at work, I have staff members who are available to render services. You started the business as a student. How were you able to balance both? The idea for the business surfaced when I was in my final year in school. Because of this, it wasn’t difficult to combine both. I had to leave school sometimes when there were events. It almost affected me and I thought I would have an extra year but I scaled through. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 