Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Students’ Union President of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Ogun State, Adegboye Olatunji, who was arrested for alleged involvement in cult activities, has gained his freedom. It was gathered that Olatunji and one other suspect, Taiwo Olanrewaju, were released on Tuesday after perfecting the bail conditions given to them by an Ogun State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Ifo. Olatunji and Olanrewaju were arraigned on Monday on three counts bordering on felony, cultism and breach of public peace. PUNCH Metro learnt that the arraignment was not unconnected to a planned protest by the National Association of Nigerian Students over the continued detention of the embattled SUG president. It was also gathered that it took the intervention of the Special Assistant to the Governor on Students’  Matters, Azeez Adeyemi, before the protest idea was dropped. The police prosecutor, Peter Akanji, in a charge sheet obtained by our correspondent, said Olatunji and his counterpart committed an offence contrary to and punishable under the law of the state. Akanji explained that the two suspects and others at large were arrested for belonging to an unlawful group known as the Neo Black Movement. The charge read in part, “That you, Adegboye Olatunji, Olarewaju Taiwo and others at large, on February 9, 2020, around 10am at Boluwatife community, Igbogi, Ilaro, in the Ilaro Magisterial District, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony, to wit, being members of an unlawful society called the Neo Black Movement, thereby committing an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 45(b) in the prohibition Laws of Ogun State, Nigeria 2006.” The magistrate, O. A  Akan, granted Olatunji and Olanrewaju bail in the sum of N200,000 with a surety each in like sum. The magistrate adjourned the case till February 20 for hearing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com