Johnson Okafor As the demutualisation  process of the Nigerian Stock Exchange nears completion, the Managing Director, APT Securities and Fund Limited, Mallam Kurfi Garba, has said it would unlock and activate idle capital that could boost activities in the capital market and the nation’s economy. The members of the exchange are to meet on March 3, to approve a change in the name of the exchange and allotment of shares in accordance with the scheme of arrangement. At the court-ordered general meeting, members of the NSE will approve the conversion of the exchange from a company limited by guarantee to a company limited by shares and it will be re-registered in the name of Nigerian Stock Exchange Group Plc. The company will have authorised share capital of N1.250bn divided into 2.5 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. They will also approve the shares allotment ratio of 78:22 for dealing members and ordinary members respectively. The members will similarly approve the transfer of the regulatory functions of the exchange to a new entity to be known as NGX Regulation Limited. Apart from the court-ordered general meeting, an extra-ordinary general meeting will be held on the same day in Lagos to elect board members for the company among other resolutions to be considered and passed. Garba while speaking at a forum in Lagos on Wednesday noted that demutualisation would reactivate idle capital in the market adding that it would change the perspective and drive more growth for the nation’s economy. He said, “It is a good thing and all of us are going to be happy at the end of the day because it is going to unlock more capital for the market. For instance, if I place shares as collateral, I can trade and make money. We are pleased this is coming after so much delay. This will change the economy’s perspective as well. “My only worry is that we are slow starters, and we need our regulators to wake up to their responsibilities.  The issue of demutualisation started many years ago but we are still talking about it in 2020. “It is already a history in Nairobi, Kenya. However, it is better late than never. If NNPC and LNG eventually get listed on the Exchange, it will make more dead capital come alive.” While offering insight to performance of the market in 2019, Garba explained that the performance of the market on quarterly basis was the worst in the last 10 years with negative returns in all the quarters. He attributed the performance to the tensed polity in the build up to the 2019 general elections and dampened investors’ confidence. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    