John Alechenu, Abuja The Chief Bisi Akande-led All Progressives Congress National Reconciliation Committee is to commence operations next week, The PUNCH has learnt. The Secretary of the committee, Senator John Enoh, gave this hint while responding  to   inquiries from our correspondent  in Abuja, on Wednesday. Enoh was asked when the committee would begin sitting and the method   it would  adopt in handling  complaints from aggrieved party members. He  said, “We are at the set-up stage, when we conclude maybe by next week we will call for memoranda – we will make it public, then we will meet to agree on the next stage.” The APC had last year set up a committee headed by the President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, to resolve  crises in its state chapters including Edo, Ondo, Rivers and Zamfara. But the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, had kicked against the committee, particularly the fact that it was  headed by Lawan. He had argued that the National Assembly was sympathetic to the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, because the  federal lawmakers had attempted to take over the Edo State House of Assembly. The crisis  in the state APC had divided the party with one faction loyal to Obaseki and  the other sympathetic to Oshiomhole Meanwhile, members of the National Executive Council of the APC Aspirants’ Forum have said they hoped the reconciliation   committee would allow justice and fairness guide its actions. National Coordinator of the forum, Lt. Col. Abdulaziz Musa Yar’adua (retd.), who spoke at the forum’s National Executive Council meeting in Abuja, said  the decision of the President, Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to set up the committee was in recognition of the fact that the party was in need of reforms. He said, “Everybody knows what happened in 2019 .  The primaries conducted by the APC had a lot of challenges like any other party but in our own case, because of the respect and the loyalty we have for the President, we decided to come together to calm ourselves  and do the needful. “What we are now trying to do is to complement the efforts of our party and make sure that this party exists and survives beyond 2023. “Of course, there is no party that does not have challenges, but I believe with the kind of effort we are making now, we will help in finding solutions to most of the challenges that our party is facing and most importantly, we all know our party has no option but to carry out certain reforms. “You can see what the President did a few months ago. He directed the party to form a national reconciliation committee now headed by Chief Bisi Akande, and I believe very soon they will start going to  states to engage party members so that we can collate all those challenges and see how to move forward.” The North-Central Publicity Secretary of the forum, Olufemi  Urrah, said, “What we are doing is to make sure that all those things that happened in the 2019 elections don’t happen again for the benefit of this country and all the people we care about.” National Patron of the forum, Alhaji Sani Zangon Daura, in his address, urged the group to involve more women and youths in their activities. This, he said, was necessary to reach out to the grass roots to get the critical mass of the people on board. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com