Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Investors have unveiled a new aviation services firm to help airlines reduce foreign exchange on aircraft refurbishment. The firm, known as Santos Aviation, is expected to solve the problem of Nigerian aircraft owners going abroad to have their aircraft interiors refurbished. The Chief Executive Officer of 7-Stars Global Hangar, Isaac Balami, said at the unveiling by representatives of the United States Federal Aviation Administration that Santos Aviation would save huge money for the airlines. He said over $100,000 would be saved annually by domestic airlines. He stated that 7- Stars would work with Santos Aviation to give airlines value for their money with quality sourced materials from overseas. “It is a huge relief; it is going to create jobs; it will increase safety and provide comfort for our passengers,” he said. Balami noted that 7-Stars Global Hangar, working together with Santos Aviation, would attract other airlines from other West Africa countries to Nigeria for patronage. He commended the NCAA for being supportive of the project. The President of Santos Aviation Limited, Segun Adesanya, said the company specialised in the provision of maintenance and interior refurbishing services to both government and privately-owned aircraft. According to Adesanya, agents and employees of Santos Aviation have professional and technical licences issued by the FAA of the United States. He said, “Based on our knowledge and experience in the aviation industry, it is our opinion that this sector of the Nigerian economy has a lot of potential for growth. “We are aware of the recent steps taken by the Federal Government of Nigeria and some state governments that will boost the growth of the sector.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  