 What can you recall about your childhood with your father – former Nigerian Head of State, Major General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi? My childhood was wonderful – learning to ride a horse, etc. My sisters and I used to enjoy marching to parade songs, for example ‘British Grenadiers’. I also helped my dad to make Sunday breakfast; bonding with dad during drives to the village and UK country side; travelling with dad to various Nigerian cities, with him telling me stories about the places. I still recall a place during a trip from Lagos to Kaduna where we spent the night. Dad said the delicacy for dinner was duck but we believed he was joking. Dad always accommodated guests from different walks of life at the house. We (children) learnt to be quiet. My sister, Caroline, told me that she sometimes stayed under his desk at the State House. She remembers that she was always allowed to see our dad at the State House and she especially remembers the birthday party he threw for her on the lawn at State House, Marina, Lagos. You were about 13 years old when your father was murdered in a counter-coup by some soldiers of northern extraction in Ibadan. What do you remember of that day, July 29, 1966? American President, Donald Trump, is said to have described Africans as fellows engaged in runaway corruption, dreadful terrorism, tribalism, poverty, unemployment, diseases, illiteracy, ignorance and inequality that are putting the continent on the verge of collapse. My father tried to correct some of the things ascribed to Trump today. His main concern was security and unity of the nation. He tried to stop killings and work out a structure for peace. Work was in progress before he was killed. Certainly, my father had plans to release Chief Obafemi Awolowo and others, and start the trial of January 1966 coupists. Even Nazis faced trial but it was not immediately. Many people have written and will continue to write about events of January and July 1966. It is their right. However, some writers’ flawed conceptual lens may be due to old age. They should not overheat the polity – wounds in Nigeria have not healed. I do not want to dwell on these issues. How did you feel when your father told you that soldiers had surrounded the Government House, Ibadan and how were you able to escape on that day? My escape from Ibadan! Well, I was disguised as a girl by the Nigeria Police and put in a train to Lagos. I can’t remember how I made my way to State House, Marina, but I was met at the train station by my mother. I was more than traumatised. But what has to be stated is that the Nigeria police was very effective in the 1960s. Regarding the events of the morning of July 29, 1966, I would suggest that everybody read the book by Chuks Elegbunam. It is a well written book that talks about my father and the event. For the purpose of this interview I can just state that when it was already 9pm to 10pm, there was light everywhere – we could see that soldiers had surrounded the Guest House. My father jokingly told me as we looked at them: “I don’t know whether they (soldiers) are friends or foes.” In hindsight, I now know that he knew they were foes. How did you feel then? Of course, my father stood by me and told me that I should look after my brothers and sisters regardless of whatever happened. He said he was sure that our mother would do everything to keep us together and well. He also told me not to exact any vengeance. As I was looking at him, I didn’t even understand why he was telling me not to exact vengeance, but as the years went by, I was able to realise that the vengeance he was speaking about was spiritual and had to do with the fact that God is the one that exacts vengeance. When your father was being led away by soldiers, you were said to be with him. How does his admonition that you should not exact vengeance resonate with you up till now? When there was a knock at the door, he told me to stand by the side of the door as he did not want anybody to come into the room. From inside the bedroom, I heard a lot of heated arguments and words like “there will be no killing here.” (Sorry, I can’t continue). Did he share some of his heroic feats at the United Nations peacekeeping missions in Congo and other countries where he commanded troops? As far as his exploits in the Congo were concerned, he was a hero, especially with the Austrians whom he saved their lives. He was awarded their highest medal. Your dad was described as a man of many firsts. Could you explain further? Yes, my father was a man of many firsts. The late Ikemba Nnewi, Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, also acknowledged my father as a great man. My father was first captain, first major, first lieutenant colonel, first colonel, first brigadier, and first major general from Nigeria. He rose through the ranks to become all of that – he didn’t just put the medals on himself. How have successive administrations celebrated your father’s ideals and contributions? The military has done a lot. As you are aware, for many years, this country was led by the military. We see the Aguiyi-Ironsi Cantonment in Abuja; there is a major street named after him in Abuja, too. In Ibekwu, Umuahia, his hometown, there is a major layout named after him. And from the democratic setting, we can also look to the fact that ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, during the country’s centenary celebrations, included my father as one of the Nigerians who should be remembered. So, at both military and civilian levels, they continue to remember him. How does the family remember him? Well, we do hold private mass every July 29 and those close to the family usually keep us company on that day. It is not a lavish event. After the mass, we just have the usual refreshments and that is all. But on the 20th, 30th and 50th anniversary, there were more elaborate celebrations that must have been made with inputs from everybody that loved him and wanted to contribute in one small way or the other. The state and federal governments sent representatives on such occasions. I would like to congratulate first of all, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, and President Muhammadu Buhari for remembering the widows of our former heads of state. Buhari has gone out of his way to ensure that my mother has some security at her residence. For this, the family thanks him. In due course, we hope to have a 10-kilometre marathon probably every year or every two years from Umuahia to Abia (international marathon open to all athletes – junior and senior) as something to use to remember him. How would you describe your dad? My father was a soldiers’ soldier – he was not a politician – he was a soldier to the core. I give kudos to Chief Obasanjo and Buhari for being soldiers who also became politicians. Are Igbo being carried along in the scheme of things in Nigeria? As a diplomat, I have to stress that in a federation, all the units of the federation have to compete and cooperate with other tribes. Because of some people who are not able to compete, they brought in federal character to ensure unity and stability, but nowadays, some people feel that there is no need for federal character in Nigeria. I disagree. Federal character is still needed to give a sense of belonging. At the state level, they could use merit. But even at the state or local government level, there will be clamour for equity because some people will feel they are being short-changed. In Abia State, we agreed that Abia South should produce the next governor after many years of futile efforts to produce a governor. In Imo State, I know of the clamour for Mbaise to produce governor. Clearly in Nigeria, the Igbo must be allowed to sit at the table in all federal structures in order to have a sense of belonging. I know that Buhari is an experienced leader and his kitchen cabinet do not want to be remembered for splitting Nigeria. As a former Minister of Defence, what is your take on the spate of insecurity across the country? I don’t want to really discuss security on the pages of newspapers as a former Minister of State and first Southern Minister of Defence since independence. I have to be very careful, but all I will say at the present time is that I want to thank our military for their service. And may the death of all those who have gone not be in vain. What is obvious now is that we have to start to think out of the box – we have to cooperate with other security agencies, not the question of the United States, the United Kingdom but even in Africa, especially within ECOWAS. We need to improve intelligence; we need to use human intelligence more. Yes, security is not only about show of arms – a hungry man, as they say, is an angry man. How can we make sure people are not too hungry? I know Buhari is somebody that helped with PTF, I know he can still do things like subsidising milk, sugar and ensuring cheap protein (is made available to Nigerians). Already some laudable projects like feeding for schoolchildren have been introduced. It should also be extended to universities so they can have cheap food there. We are talking about community policing, yes, it is necessary but whether it is community policing, state, federal, the issue of vetting of personnel must to be improved. You can use people who have retired to do the vetting – it is not everybody that can be a policeman. There is a psychological element you have to check – all those in the security forces should check for those that are taking drugs in the military too. You can’t just give guns to anybody and when things happen, you start to wonder why they happen. What are the things Nigerians don’t know about your father? What many Nigerians don’t know about my dad, Major General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi, the late Supreme Commander and Head of State of Nigeria, is that he was a soldier’s soldier (infantry). He had six daughters and two sons with our mother, Lady Victoria Aguiyi-Ironsi. He was interested in auctions and (silver antiquities). He liked to watch wrestling and horse racing. He grew up in Zaria and was in Ghana during World War II as Staff Sergeant and Warrant Officer. He despised nepotism; and was not interested in capital accumulation. He believed his wife – Victoria – was his most precious jewel. I dare say 75 per cent of our youths cannot tell you who Brig. Kur Mohammed was? As a boy, I can still recall how beautiful his wife was. Nigerian youths should learn from history in order to assist their future development. Comparative religious education should also be taught at our primary schools. Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, is right to insist that preachers – both Christians and Muslims – should be circumspect in their utterances. To simply google answers to questions fails to adequately impact the knowledge of how and under what conditions our past heroes operated. How could the military authorities assist underprivileged persons in the military? One per cent of our earnings should be used to set up a defence fund to establish estates for veterans, provide loans for widows and hospital care for officers and non-commissioned officers, especially those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. The above measures can help assist issues in military. How has life been with the family without Aguiyi-Ironsi? Our beautiful mother, Victoria, widowed early and never remarried. For 20 years, she lived in her three-bedroomed house she built after the end of the Nigerian Civil War. She never collected her husband’s pension for 20 years which was then a paltry sum. Ezenwanyi Victoria lived on contracts, politics and assistance from officers who remembered her husband. We must single out Chief Olusegun Obasanjo; his aide-de-camp, Col Sani Bello; Gen (Adeyinka) Adebayo; and Uncle Abah of Man-Must-Wack Estate, Port Harcourt; and a former Deputy Chairman, South, defunct National Party of Nigeria, when the party reigned supreme. Others who have closely related with the family are a former Head of State, Gen Yakubu Gowon (retd.); Senators Theodore Orji and Orji Uzor Kalu, among others. After our father was killed, by the grace of God and those who love our family, my siblings adjusted well. Caroline is in Reinsurance; Lousa, Journalism; Jane, PhD Law (died of cancer in 2015); Fo (Deputy Federal Director, Ministry of Health); Angela (Business) and Anne (hospital services in the United States). How did he bond with his family? Before I could barely walk properly, my dad took me on my first trip to the United Kingdom. In 1958, we were in Germany where he attended a course. In 1961, he took his family to the United Kingdom where he was Defence Adviser. We also visited him for a holiday in the Democratic Republic of Congo (then Congo) when he was UN Force Commander. In Nigeria, I followed him to Lagos, Abeokuta, Enugu and Kaduna as we moved from one army formation to another. From 1962 to 1972, I did not return to Nigeria. In fact, I had to travel to Nigeria with emergency travel certificate as I had no passport. I entered the UK in 1961 under my mother’s passport as a British subject. The point I want to stress is that even after going to British Columbia University in Canada, I remained a Nigerian because my dad believed in Nigeria. My father, in spite of all his travels, remained in Nigeria. In fact, his world study tour with the then Imperial College, London, took him as far away as New Zealand. We still have some Māori souvenirs from that visit though some people burnt some of them before I could save them because they felt they had to do with pagan religious beliefs. The big question today is whether it pays to be a Nigerian. How is ‘Andrew’ doing in Europe? Not too well I am sure, as he may be seen as a migrant, an anathema to them. Black footballers get racially abused. If a black person is married to a white person, they are forced to retreat to Canada. President Buhari, like my dad, reminds us that Nigeria is our home. We must fight to make it better. What were his guiding philosophies in life? Dad always believed that a man should imbibe the philosophy of tempus fugit (time flies). He believed you should not tell anyone your true destination. Bringing this philosophy to bear on Buhari, I would advise him to be slow and careful in order to rule a complex country my father would have approved of. He also believed in the importance of loyalty –people loyal to you will determine how far you can go. What were the lessons you learnt from your father that is helping you till today? I learnt from my father’s mistake of not following military methods completely; I learnt that justice delayed is justice denied. I try to know who has my best interest at heart and I give everyone a rope long enough to hang themselves. He made me to learn that material things are not important and that love conquers all things. What advice do you have for parents and Nigerians based on lessons you learnt from your dad? Parents are destined or genetically disposed to pass on lessons and examples to their children and wards. Foremost of the lessons my father gave me was to recognise that people have differences and that we should always respect each other’s differences, whether religious, political or socio-cultural. The fingers of the hands are not equal but they can make the hand perform its functions when working together. Can the youth of Nigeria tell me how many Hindus are there in the world? Are they not human beings? We must be careful in our religious utterances and beliefs. If religious intolerance gets into our military, Nigeria is doomed. How would you describe your sojourn in the Ministry of Defence? In my short sojourn in the Ministry of Defence where the then President, Olusegun Obasanjo, selected me ahead of others from Abia State, I learnt my father’s belief that we must live by laws or suffer consequences. Justice delayed may indeed be justice denied. But when I once received minutes stating that I should hasten slowly, I understood the problems of leadership in Nigeria. Hopefully, Buhari will hasten to change political and military structures in order to move the country forward. In the current security situation, is there really a need for Chief of Defence Staff? National Security Adviser’s office should have a retired three-star general working there. There are plentiful things to discuss about our country’s security set-up. Our youths are not being mobilised to assist in intelligence and security of the country. Look at Israel and its youths and see where that has catapulted them to. Has your father’s name opened doors for you? Someone, now a minister, told me that I was the chairman of ‘Children of Generals in Nigeria’. No, no doors opened. I have no oil bloc and I don’t want. I do want to contribute to Nigeria’s development and if Buhari finds me worthy as a detribalised Nigerian to assist him, so be it. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   