Nike Popoola Anchor Insurance Company says it plans to generate N10bn premium income this year. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr Ebose Augustine, disclosed this during a media briefing in Lagos. He said the firm, which had continued to grow its operations, grew its premium income to N5bn in 2019 financial period. That managing director said that to achieve the set target for 2020, it was growing its presence and had concluded plans to increase its branch network across the country. He also said that it would leverage the use of technology to sell its products and improve on its agency system to reach esteemed customers. According to him, the firm was poised to become one of the leading operators in the industry in post recapitalisation. While assuring the stakeholders of its readiness to meet the new requirement of the industry’ recapitalisation, he said the company had so far achieved about 85 per cent of the new minimum capital required to remain afloat post recapitalisation. The managing director noted that Akwa Ibom State Government, which owned 61 per cent stake in the company, had through the right issues, injected N9.6bn to the firm. He also disclosed that the company hoped to exceed the minimum capital requirement of the National Insurance Commission, and raise its capital to N11.6bn in post recapitalisation. While assuring its customers of prompt claims payment, the Anchor Insurance boss said the firm paid N1.3bn claims in 2019. He said Anchor Insurance had automated its claims system, making it possible for claimants to access their claims without coming to the firm. According to him, the firm has introduced plans on how to deploy its post recapitalisation funds to enable it remain top in the sphere of underwriting business. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com