Our Correspondents The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has opposed what he calls “revenge killings” either carried out by local communities against bandits or bandits against local communities. He said if bandits attacked a community and they were caught, they should be handed over to law enforcement agencies, as against killing them. The President argued that doing so would prevent another round of reprisals by bandits against the affected communities. He was reacting to the latest round of attacks on farmers by bandits in Dankar and Tsauwa villages in the Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State. Up to 30 people were killed on Friday night in the villages in two separate incidents. The President, who condemned the attacks, noted that killing people in the name of revenge was not acceptable. A State House statement by his media aide, Mr Garba Shehu, on Sunday said Buhari warned that “no one in the country has a right to take the law into his own hands by the way of self-help or revenge. “Local communities that catch bandits should hand over the suspects to law enforcement authorities instead of meting out capital punishment, leading to a cycle of revenge and counter revenge.” The President called on community leaders and local authorities to intensify their partnership with law enforcement agencies that led to the surrender of bandits. He added that such efforts had led to peaceful co-existence between farmers and herders. Buhari added, “The authorities must be allowed to investigate and deal with any breach that occurs. There is no place for violence in a decent society.” However, he sympathised with the families that lost loved ones in the attacks. He also prayed for those who died. Recall that the Governor Aminu Masari of the state had in a peace deal with bandits last year, made many bandits to submit their firearms to the authorities in exchange for amnesty. The governors of neighbouring states also copied the Masari example, leading to claims that banditry had dropped in the affected states, especially Katsina. But, in January this year, the attackers returned again, killing victims in some local government areas of the state. When the governor’s views on the resurgence of killings were sought and specifically on whether the peace deal had collapsed, Masari replied that the “peace accord is still on course.” Meanwhile, some residents of Tsauwa have revealed that following the attack, some have fled the town for Batsari and Katsina to seek temporary refuge with their relatives. Mallam Umaru Balarabe, who lost a two-year-old girl at Tsauwa during the attack, said some of his neighbours had fled the village. Another Tsauwa resident, Abdu Rasheed, said he would leave the town immediately after the burial of Mallam Isah Barau, a 50-year-old man who was also killed during the attack. There is however no IDP camp in the state. However, calm on Sunday returned to Tsauwa and Dankar villages in the Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State where bandits attacked and killed no fewer than 30 people. Security operatives including the police, the army and members of local vigilante group were still stationed in Tsauwa which witnessed much destruction. Sources revealed that the operatives would be in the village (Tsauwa) until a directive was given that they should leave. It was further learnt that the security operatives were also patrolling Dankar although they were stationed in Tsauwa. Meanwhile, Masari on Sunday also cautioned residents of the state against taking the law into their own hands in the current efforts to tackle banditry in the state. The governor gave the advice in Malumfashi while speaking at the empowerment programme initiated by the senator representing Katsina South Senatorial District, Bello Mandiya. Masari said investigation had revealed that the Friday attack was a retaliatory action for the killing of two Fulani by farmers in the area. The governor assured the people that he would continue to promote peace in the state. Meanwhile, security sources in Katsina said the Nigerian Air Force had already commenced aerial attacks on the bandits. The sources did not disclose when the aerial attacks took place. By: John Ameh and Olaide Oyelude Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  