Rasheed Bisiriyu Mitsubishi L200 has been named as the pick-up of the year less than one year after the latest model of the vehicle was unveiled by Massilia Motors at an impressive outing in Lagos. Managing Director of Massilia Motors/Country delegate of the CFAO Group in Nigeria, Mr Thomas Pelletier, said the firm was excited by the recognition given to the pick-up, which has over the years been a key player across various Nigerian industries. The Mitsubishi L200 nominated alongside the Toyota Hilux and the Ford Ranger was selected the winner at an annual Nigeria Auto Awards held recently in Lagos. A statement by the CFAO recalled that during the launch of the latest model last year, Pelletier had said, “Mitsubishi L200 is very important to us because it represents 80 per cent of our sales, and I am optimistic that customers will like the new generation L200.” Pelletier, who was also recognised as the Most Innovative CEO of the Year during the NAJA awards, said, “In terms of value for money, we are the best because we do not compromise on quality delivery and our Mitsubishi cars have been tried and tested over the years. “Our after-sales support is backed by qualified technicians who have been adequately trained by the Japanese manufacturer.” The statement also quoted General Manager for Sales at Massilia Motors, Mr Tunji Itiola, as saying that the enhanced rugged exterior features and advanced safety features were prominent additions to the new vehicle. According to him, the vehicle comes in three variants: single/double cabins 4×2 and double cabin 4×4 powered by a 2.4-litre engine. The statement added, “The Mitsubishi L200 pick-up gained popularity through its constant evolution in the last 40 years, thanks to its driving dynamics, running costs, standard kit and attractive prices. “The L200 is used as a utility vehicle in a wide variety of applications such as construction sites, fast-moving consumer goods’ distribution and oil field sites.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   