Friday Olokor, Abuja A civil rights organisation under the aegis of the Centre for Liberty on Sunday recommended the conduct of all general elections in one day to reduce costs, curb rigging and violence. The PUNCH reported that upon resumption of the 9th National Assembly for the 2020 legislative session on January 28, 2020, CFL alongside a group of volunteers, had staged an urgent peaceful walk to the National Assembly to remind the federal lawmakers to prioritise the passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, to further demonstrate its commitment to free, fair and credible elections in Nigeria. The CFL in a statement issued in Abuja by its co-conveners, Ariyo-Dare Atoye, Deji Adeyanju and Raphael Adebayo, also announced the commencement of a people-driven electoral reform advocacy sponsored by the Open Society Initiative for West Africa to ensure the immediate passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2018 by the 9th National Assembly. The electoral reforms, CFL said, must be prioritised by the 9th National Assembly as “a foremost legislative focus, before the next governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states.” The CFL recommended that it was important for the reforms to be tested in the off-season elections. The statement read, “We will, among other provisions in the Amendment Bill before the National Assembly, be advocating full biometrics for accreditation, electronic collation of results, conduct of all state (governorship, House of Assembly) and federal elections (President, National Assembly) in one day. Other demands include free movement of voters to enable a wider voter participation, election finance reform, as well as other important provisions. “We believe that the 9th National Assembly has a responsibility to actively aggregate the general views of all stakeholders in Nigeria’s democratic process including the civil society organisations, political parties, international partners and especially the electorate, to legislate an enduring electoral reform Act that will reinforce the trust of the electorates and other stakeholders in the credibility of Nigeria’s electoral process.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  