John Ameh, Abuja The Presidency on Tuesday backed the rallies by the Christian Association of Nigeria over insecurity in the country, saying that the conduct was an example of citizens’ right to peaceful expression of their feelings. CAN had called for prayer rallies over the worsening insecurity in the country, seeking God’s intervention for solutions. Popular clerics, including the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, had participated in the exercise on Sunday. The prayers were called soon after Boko Haram executed the Chairman of the Michika Local Government Area chapter of CAN in Adamawa State, the late Pastor Lawan Andimi. The Presidency applauded the rallies, noting that all lives were sacred, be they Christians or Muslims. “The actions of Christian Association of Nigeria in recent days represent the peaceful rights of all Nigerians to protest and express their views on matters of religion, ethics, politics and society. “The origination of their protests is the shocking, unacceptable death of Pastor Lawan Andimi at the hands of Boko Haram. The President feels their pain, and that of his family, for his loss. READ ALSO: CAN flays Buhari’s claim that 90% Boko Haram victims are Muslims “The President believes, as does every member of his administration, both Christian and Muslim, in the words of CAN’s placards: ‘All life is sacred,” a State House by Buhari’s media aide, Mr Garba Shehu, said. The Presidency cautioned against making false claims, recalling that there were instances lately where certain individuals and groups tried to politicise the current security situation. But, it said CAN’s approach was worthy of emulation, as an example of how to express displeasure with any situation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 