Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Director of Litigation, Ministry of Justice, Kaduna State, Sanusi Usman, has lamented that the state government did not comply with a court order restraining Governor Nasir el-Rufai from demolishing and taking over Durbar Hotel, located in the metropolis. Sanusi expressed the concern before a Kaduna State High Court presided over by Justice Hanatu Balogun in the state capital on Monday. He told the court he was sad because the state did not comply with the order to halt the demolition of Durbar Hotel, believed to be owned by the family of the late Gen. Sani Abacha. Recall that the high court in Kaduna had on January 21, 2020 restrained El-Rufai and the agencies of the state government from demolishing and taking over the hotel located in Kaduna. The hotel had been a subject of litigation between the Federal Government and the family of the late Head of the State since 2001. The Abacha family was said to have won the case both at the lower and the appellate courts, which is now before the Supreme Court. But the officials of the state, led by the Kaduna State Urban and Property Development Agency on Wednesday night demolished the hotel. The court restraining order followed an ex parte motion brought before the court by the counsel for the management of Durbar Hotel Plc, Mr Reuben Atabo, praying the court for an order of interim injunction restraining El-Rufai and the agencies of the state government from demolishing, taking over, or tampering with the property. But when the case came up on Monday before Justice Balogun for determination on the motion on notice, Atabo applied for stay of procedure of motion on notice until the court order restraining El-Rufai from taking over the hotel is complied with. Usman, who is also the counsel for the government, called for a round-table discussion with all the parties in the case and report back at the next adjournment. He said, “It is really sad that the court order was not complied with but I am not aware of the fact that the order of this honourable court has been disobeyed by any party  but to me, it is sad my Lord. “I honestly feel bad about it. I am proposing a meeting with all the parties and Atabo to see how this can be addressed.” The lawyer for the Abacha family, Reuben Atabo, had earlier in his submission to the court, noted that the decision of the court was meant to be obeyed by government officials, institutions and individuals. “The decision of the court is meant to be fulfilled by government officials, institutions and individuals. Our simple application is that your Lordship order must be complied with before another step could be taken in this case,” he said. The judge, after listening to the plaintiff and defence counsel, adjourned the case till February 11, 2020. “In the interest of justice, we will hear the report of compliance with court order on February 11, 2020,” Justice Balogun said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    