Deji Lambo Men of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested eight suspected cult members for allegedly terrorising residents of Ikorodu, Imota, Agbowa, Owutu, Ijede, Ipakodo and Owode Onirin areas of Lagos State. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, in a statement on Sunday, said the suspects were arrested by men of the Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants commissioned by the state Commissioner of Police to put an end to cult activities in the state. He added that the suspects would be charged to court at the end of investigations. Elkana said, “A deadly leader of the Aiye confraternity, Sikiru Samuel, aka Samora, 24, was arrested at Imota. Other members of his gang that were arrested were Adegboyega Ismaila, 19; Sunkanmi Shonubi, aka Napel, 19; Adigun Faruq, 18; Rilwan Akinwale, 30; Victor Uju, aka Zino, 18; Juwon Idowu, aka Lighter 18; Rasak Adebola, aka Bobo, 20; and Kehinde Keshinro, 18. The gang is responsible for a series of attacks and gang violence in Imota and its environs. “One of such violent attacks happened on February 12, 2020, around 8.30pm which led to the death of one David Nwanga, 30, of Araro Adamo area. The suspects were handed over to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Yaba, for discreet investigation. They will be charged to court.” In another development, five suspects were arrested by the police for alleged possession of firearms and substance suspected to be Indian hemp. Elkana said the suspects were intercepted where they were smoking the substance. He said, “On February 14, 2020, around 11.30pm, a team of police officers from the Oke Odo Police Station on patrol along Lagos/Abeokuta Expressway, intercepted some social miscreants at Katangowa refuse dump smoking dry weed suspected to be Indian hemp. “On sighting the police, the miscreants took to their heels. The police gave them a hot chase and five suspects were arrested with one double-barrelled shotgun and three live cartridges. The suspects will be charged to court.” Meanwhile, personnel of the command also arrested one Yusuf Akinradewo for allegedly snatching a car in the Ikorodu area of the state. Elkana said after receiving complaints on the missing car, police officers who were detailed to investigate the case arrested the suspect, who had already initiated contact with a buyer. He said, “The suspect took one Mitsubishi Montero Jeep with number plate GGE 620 AQ to one Wasiu Ogunsola of Omolojuwo Street, Dalemo, Sango-Ota, Ogun State, to a buyer. “When the buyer demanded the original particulars of the vehicle, the suspect abandoned the vehicle and ran away. Police detectives eventually arrested the suspect and recovered another stolen vehicle from him, a Toyota Camry saloon car with number plate AGL 480 EC, belonging to one Alhaji Nurudeen Rasaki, of Isiaka Adekoya Street, Igbogbo, Lagos State. “The owners of the stolen vehicles were contacted and they confirmed that the vehicles were stolen from Ikorodu. The suspect will be charged to court, while the two recovered vehicles will be handed over to the owners on bond.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  