Sunday Aborisade,  Abuja The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday, indicted the Federal Ministry of Health for not putting serious measures in place to prevent the outbreak of Coronavirus in Nigeria. He, therefore, urged the Senate Committee on Primary Health Care to further liaise with the Ministry to intensify screening of passengers at the nation’s airports and seaports. Lawan stated this following a point of order by the Deputy Senate Leader, Senator Ajayi Boroffice. Boroffice drew the attention of the Senate to the failure of health personnel at the airports and seaports to thoroughly screen passengers coming into the country. He explained that he was subjected to screening for Coronavirus on arrival at a South African airport recently. He said the screening at the South African airport usually takes up to 30 minutes before passengers would be allowed to disembark the aircraft. READ ALSO: Ambode loses bid to stop probe into purchase of 820 vehicles He said the situation was different on his arrival at the Nigerian airport when the health officials in the nation’s airports merely issued a form for passengers to indicate if they were sick or not. He said, “There is no form of any screening of passengers for Coronavirus by Nigerian officials at the airport. “It is worrisome, situations where travellers coming into the country were not dully screened for the dreaded virus.” Boroffice said he brought the attention of the Senate to his experience for the Federal Ministry of Health and other concerned agencies to take note. Lawan commended Boroffice for raising the issue. He said every country in the world was making efforts to ensure that the virus did not cross their borders. He said although the Federal  Ministry of Health and other associated  agencies were doing their best, their best was not good enough. “We must take all the necessary measures at our ports, airports, seaports, to protect our people. “If anybody is coming from China, he or she should be quarantined not even isolation for two weeks or four weeks, we have to protect the lives of Nigerians,” he added.