Etim Ekpimah A man, identified as Ifeanyi Uchendu, has been stabbed to death at a pub in the Alausa area of Lagos State. Uchendu, who was a resident of Akute Ajuwon area of Ogun State, was said to have gone to the pub operated by one Dennis Obiora at No. 17 Jogunosimi Street, Alausa, with his friends and demanded free drinks. A source told PUNCH Metro that Obiora resisted their demand owing to their disorderly conduct, and sent them away. According to the source, the situation did not go down well with Uchendu as he picked a bottle, broke it and stabbed Obiora in the head. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident to PUNCH Metro, stated that the police received a distress call on January 22 that there was a fight at No. 17 Jogunosimi Street, Alausa. He added that a team led by the Divisional Crime Officer, Alausa Police Station, SP Sani Abdulrahman, was sent to the scene of the crime. According to him, one Uchendu went to a pub operated by Obiora with his friends and demanded free drinks. Elkana stated that Obiora did not grant the request and sent them away, adding that Uchendu took a bottle, broke it and stabbed him in the head. The pub owner retaliated by stabbing his attacker in the chest with a knife. He said, “On January 22, 2020, around 7.30pm, a distress call was received that people were fighting at No. 17 Jogunosimi Street, Alausa, Ikeja. “A team of policemen led by the DCO, SP Sani Abdulrahman, was dispatched to the scene of the crime, where one Ifeanyi Uchendu of the Akute Ajuwon area of Ogun State went with his friends to a pub operated by Dennis Obiora at No. 17 Jogunosimi Street, Alausa, and demanded free drinks in their usual habit. “But this was resisted by Obiora due to their disorderly conduct; hence he sent them out of the pub. But Uchendu forcefully took a bottle of alcoholic drink, broke it and stabbed Obiora in his head. “Obiora retaliated by stabbing Uchendu with a knife in his chest, thus leading to his death.” The PPRO noted that the policemen arrested Obiora and rushed Uchendu to the Accident and Emergency Unit at the old tollgate for treatment. He added that Uchendu’s corpse had been deposited in the Mainland Hospital mortuary, Yaba, for autopsy. The PPRO added that Obiora would be charged after a thorough and discreet investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com