Success Nwogu and Godwin Isenyo The Peoples Democratic Party and the African Democratic Congress on Friday lampooned the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) over his claims that his regime was succeeding in addressing insecurity. Buhari at the inauguration of two helicopters for the armed forces said Nigerians believed in the success achieved by his government in tackling the  Boko Haram insurgency, kidnapping, and banditry. But the ADC National Publicity Secretary, Yemi Kolapo, insisted the security situation in Nigeria had deteriorated. According to her,  Nigerians do not believe  Buhari has made success in the fight against Boko Haram, kidnapping and banditry. She said, “President Muhammadu Buhari should be excused if he thinks or says that his administration has succeeded in tackling insecurity. Those who have been monitoring Nigerian politics ever since the All Progressives Congress took over power would not be surprised at this claim. This is because it had always appeared in critical situations that the President was always in the dark, even when decisions were made. The  PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Friday berated Buhari for attempting to award himself an “unearned pass” mark. Ologbondiyan said, “It is indeed inexcusable that instead of accepting failure, Mr President, who recently confessed his surprise over the level of insecurity in our nation under his watch, is now resorting to self-praise spurred by his handlers to divert attention from the consensus by Nigerians and  the international community that he had failed as Commander-in-Chief.” READ ALSO: Kidnappers killed Nnadi after getting ransom, I pray God forgives them –Raphael, twin brother of slain Kaduna seminarian Meanwhile,  students under the aegis of the National Association of Polytechnic Students have given Buhari a 14-day-ultimatum  to replace his service chief or face their wrath. The students said the failure of the Federal Government to do sack the service chiefs would force them to ground the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, to ensure that the service chiefs either voluntarily resign or were sacked. The National President of NAPS, Sunday Asuku, while addressing a press conference in Kaduna on Friday, said the ultimatum became necessary because of the deteriorating security situation in the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 