The Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, alleges in this interview with SOLA SHITTU that National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole wants the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in Edo State How would you react to the recent bombing incident in the state? We believe according to intelligent information available to us that (Adams) Oshiomhole is the one orchestrating all these attacks and they are trying to stir controversies in the state. We believe that his intention is to force the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in Edo State. If this kind of thing is happening in an election year what do you think is the implication? I am sure anybody who wants to tell the truth knows that Oshiomhole has been making frantic efforts to seize control of the state from the governor by using violent means or using extra democratic means. His original intention was to use the state lawmakers to remove the governor. After he failed in that attempt, he went to the National Assembly to come and take over the Edo State House of Assembly. That was the second attempt of trying to take over the House of Assembly through undemocratic means. Of course at that time, the National Assembly felt indebted to him because he had just helped them to arrange the emergence of its principal officers of the at that time. So, they quickly adopted the resolution to come and take over the Edo State House of Assembly under the supervision of Oshiomhole. We went to court and the court stood firmly and said it was against the constitution for the National Assembly to take over the state House of Assembly. It also said that it was aainst the law of the land to be forced to issue a second proclamation when the governor had already issued one. So, by the grace of God, the judiciary saved us at that time. This next move is along the same line. Since he failed in his plan to use the House of Assembly to impeach the governor, he is now trying to use the security agencies in Abuja by causing crises in the state. They want to make a case to the Federal Government that Edo State is a theatre of war where law and order have broken down so that they can declare a state of emergency and seize government from Obaseki. But the Oshiomole camp is saying that it is Obaseki that is desperate because of his ambition for second term. What do you have to say on this? I don’t understand what they mean that Obaseki is desperate. A sitting governor is a sitting governor. Do you become desperate over a seat you are already occupying? I don’t understand that. The time for election has not come when you can talk of desperation. Can the governor become desperate over a position he is already holding? READ ALSO: Obaseki using violence to secure APC gov ticket – Oshiomhole’s ally Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shuaibu have been accused of raising a killer squad. How do you react to this? Yes, for the first time I doff my hat for journalists who covered the press briefing (where the allegation was made). Because they said in second paragraph (of their story) immediately after the allegation, that these people provided no proof as to how and when, means and methods for this to happen.  It’s completely false and a figment of the imagination of the speaker. It is still along the same line of saying that law and order have broken down in the state so that the security agencies and the presidency can declare a state of emergency and take over the state from the governor. Can the state government place a ban on rally? The first ban on rally in the state came from the office of the Inspector General of Police and it is for the collective good of the people to prevent a breakdown of law and order. After that order the state government also issued a statement suspending all political rallies and meetings in the interest of peace and protection of lives of our people which is the primary responsibility of government. In any case, if you feel that you don’t agree with the ban order placed by government there are ways of vacating it and that is by approaching the court. If the government takes a decision and you feel it is not legal you reserve the right to go to court and seek a redress. Nobody has the permission to take law into their own hand. The deputy governor, Philip Shaibu, recently submitted a petition to the Inspector General of Police in Abuja seeking the arrest of Oshiomole. Why this? We are left with no other choice, because it has become clear that Oshiomhole is the singular cause of the crises in Edo State. The likes of Osagie Ize-Iyamu and other politicians are only seizing the opportunity of Oshiomhole in the crises to actualise their desperate ambition. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   