Anna Okon Stakeholders have suggested utilising the Ikorodu Lighter Terminal  as an alternative container depot to lessen congestion at the Apapa and Tin Can Island ports. Speaking under the aegis of the National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents, the stakeholders, in a letter made available to our correspondent, said Kirikiri Lighter Terminal had four empty terminals that could accommodate 15,000 loaded containers, which would ease the congestion in Lagos and shift some of the pressure from Apapa  and Tin Can Island to Kirikiri port area. In the letter signed by its president, Mr Lucky Amiwero, the stakeholders informed the Federal Government that most of the empty spaces that were converted to terminal in the Kirikiri lighter port area were identified during the port congestion in 2001 by the Special Committee on Action Plan for Clearing Cargo BackLog, which eventually assisted in decongesting Lagos port in 2001. The letter  was addressed to the President,  Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.). They said using the alternative depot would eliminate the possible litigation that could be generated from the international community and import trading community for diverting Lagos bound cargoes to other ports. The group said, “The following terminals; Brawal phase 1, Baco liner, Kirikiri phase 2 and Kirikiri phase 3 are empty terminals that are idle. These terminals were used in 2001 port congestion and can still be utilised to clear the cargo backlog in Lagos Port by redeeming the country’s image and saving  the trading community from litigation, clearance and logistic complexities associated with diversion,” They added that Brawal phase 1, Baco liner, Kirikiri phase 2 and Kirikiri phase 3 had  the capacity to accommodate 2000, 4000,3000 and 2,000 containers respectively. They advised the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in order to utilise available empty terminals in Lagos, adding that Lagos port congestion had backlog of cargoes. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   