Patrick Odey, Uyo The Akwa Ibom State Police command has apprehended one Kingsley Nelson for allegedly impersonating as a captain of the Nigerian army. Nelson, an indigene of Abak Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, was arrested by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad on February 2, 2020 along with two others, Solomon Essien and Stephen Joseph – both residents of Ikot-Ekpene Local Government Area of the state. A statement on Friday by the command’s Public Relations Officer, N’nudam Frederick, said a search party conducted by the SARS operatives led to the recovery of three vehicles and an army uniform with the insignia of a captain. The statement read in part, “The operatives of SARS on February 2, 2020, at 11:30pm swung into action and arrested one Kingsley Nelson, a fake army captain, and two other members of his syndicate, Solomon Essien and Stephen Joseph. They specialised in carjacking and have been on the sensitive radar of the command. “The arrest culminated in the recovery of one Toyota Corolla car with registration number EG 710 EKY, one Toyota Carina car with registration number TTU 331 SC and one Honda CRV with registration number RSH 189 EKY. Search conducted at the Nelson’s residence led to the recovery of an army uniform with the insignia of a captain.” The police spokesman said investigation had commenced to unravel more facts about the suspect. He also noted that the Anti-Child Theft Unit, created by the state Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, had recorded some breakthroughs. According to him, a combined team of Itu Police Division and Anti-Child Theft Unit intercepted an 18-seater Jimbei Hiace bus with the number plate YEN 709 XA, conveying six underage children on January 5, 2020. He said during investigation, two suspected traffickers, one Esther Akpan,  42 and Solomon Akpan, 21, confessed that they were taking the victims from Calabar to Ondo State for child labour. He said the command had transferred all the victims to the Ministry of Women Affairs for custody, while the suspected traffickers had been charged. The PPRO further stated that operatives of Mbo Police Division within the period under review, arrested one Peace Okon on January 7, 2020 for allegedly abducting one Joy Ekpeima, 16, and  Peace 17, in November 2019 and taking them to her sister’s house in Ogun State. He said the suspect denied them access to contact their parents and subjected them to forced labour and exploitation, adding that the suspect had confessed to the crime. Fredrick said, “The suspect took advantage of the victims being dropouts, occasioned by the inability of their parents to pay their school fees. She abducted them and used them for forced labour. “The operatives proceeded to Ogun State and arrested the suspect’s sister, one Sandra Bassey who took custody of the victims. The suspects have been charged,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com