John Alechenu, Abuja Supporters of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, have commenced activities to counter moves to oust him from office. The supporters, acting under the aegis of Unity Group of APC and Friends of Oshiomhole in Nigeria, held a peaceful protest at the APC National Headquarters, Abuja, on Friday and planned to hold others, Saturday PUNCH has learnt. A source said, “We are ready to defend our chairman from the organised attacks of enemies of our party. “We will be holding peaceful protests before our mega rally. There will also be radio and television appearances by some of our leaders, it’s a full package.” Friday’s protesters, who displayed banners with inscriptions, ‘Oshiomhole carry on,’ ‘Oshiomhole must stay’, ‘Oshiomhole, you have done well’, among others, converged at the party’s secretariat. Some of them wore khaki tops and trousers as a mark of solidarity with the embattled chairman. Addressing newsmen shortly after the rally, the leader of the APC Unity Group, Mallam Idris Faruk, said, “The campaign of calumny against our National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, must stop. “We know all those behind it do not mean well for this party, they are resisting the positive changes he is bringing to the party but they cannot succeed because most members of this party stand in support of the chairman. “We are here today as APC members to give support to our national chairman for the good work he has been doing. We want him to continue. Whoever wants the national chairman to go, he or she is nursing their exit from the party.” Speaking at the event, the National Publicity Secretary of Friends of Oshiomhole in Nigeria, Folorunso Emmanuel, said, “We are here to say Oshiomhole must stay. Those who want him out are working for the opposition. “It is with this same Oshiomhole as chairman that we won the last presidential elections hands down, we now fully control the National Assembly and things are going on well, why change a winning team.” About 24 hours earlier, protesters clamouring for Oshiomhole’s removal stormed the secretariat but had to scamper to safety when they were attacked by a mob. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 