Samuel Awoyinfa Financial and economic experts have called for more investment in the real sector in order to grow the country’s economic indices. They all spoke at the BusinessDay 2020 Nigeria Economic Outlook conference held in Lagos. They also agreed that the rapid population growth in Nigeria might be a blessing in driving economic growth only if the potential were harnessed. Speaking during the panel discussion, the Managing Director, Old Mutual Life Assurance, Mr Olusegun Omosehin, said the country should not lose sight of its huge population and the inherent potential in the human resource. He said,  “Nigeria’s huge population of about 200 million people is rather a blessing. We have an active population that is attractive to investors. People between the ages of 15 and 64 years make up 50 per cent of our population.” He said that the government should make a deliberate effort to promote  entrepreneurship so as to address the issues of  unemployment and underemployment, particularly among the youth. “With the right policies, Nigeria can fully optimise the power inherent in its huge population. We need to focus more on youth entrepreneurship and support the growth of Small and Medium Enterprises,” Omosehin  said. Omosehin added that the insurance sector had great potential of enhancing a viable environment for engagement for the businesses by undertaking capital investments, while also implementing medium and long-term insurance policies, which could support the SMEs. “The insurance sector is capable of accelerating economic growth in Nigeria,” he said. “Insurance sector needs the right policies to become the backbone of the economy. With the right policies in place, insurance can encourage long-term savings and mobilise funds to finance critical infrastructure deficit in the areas of transportation, power and housing to accelerate economic growth.” A chief economist with the Development Bank of Nigeria, Prof Joseph Nnanna, on his part, urged the government to focus on investing in quality education, infrastructure, SMEs and girl-child empowerment to enhance development and propel Nigeria for a double-digit growth. The theme for this year’s conference is Nigeria’s Prosperity Ahead 2030: Population, Data, Productivity. The Managing Director, BusinessDay Media, Dr Ogho Okiti, in his keynote address, said that reliance on oil might not be sustainable on the long run and called for diversification in the nation’s exports. He said, “Performance of the economy follows the dynamics of oil prices and revenue. We need to diversify our exports in terms of productivity gains relating to other countries. To achieve a speedy growth and become one of the top 20 economies of the world by 2030, Nigeria needs a growth rate of between 7-10 per cent.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 