Anna Okon The Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc has announced significant appointments to its board and executive management. Following the move, Owen Omogiafo has been appointed as President/Group Chief Executive Officer, Transcorp, with effect from March 25, 2020. She  will succeed Valentine Ozigbo, who is retiring to pursue a career in public service, having served Transcorp for close to a decade. Omogiafo is currently the MD/CEO of Transcorp Hotels Plc and has over two decades of corporate experience in organisational development, human capital management, banking, change management and hospitality, Transcorp noted in a statement on Tuesday. Also appointed is Dupe Olusola, as the MD/CEO of Transcorp Hotels Plc, effective from March 25, 2020. She is currently the Group Head, Marketing at United Bank for Africa Plc and  has over 21 years of corporate experience including being the former  MD/CEO of Teragro Juice Concentrate Plant. Others are; Helen Iwuchukwu, as an Executive Director/Chief Operating Officer of the company. She is currently the Group Company Secretary of Transcorp Plc. Christopher Ezeafulukwe, who  has been appointed as the MD/CEO of Transcorp Power Plant, Ughelli, was the Executive Director, Business Development  and  Legal, Transcorp Plc. Okaima Ohizua has been appointed Executive Director/Chief Operating Officer of Transcorp Power Ltd and  Valentine Ozigbo as a Non-Executive Director, following his resignation as MD/CEO of Transcorp Plc. The Chairman, Transcorp Group and Heirs Holdings, Tony  Elumelu, was quoted as saying that he was confident  that the newly appointed chief executives and non-executive directors would  further strengthen Transcorp’s mission of improving lives across Nigeria. He said, “These appointments demonstrate our commitment to nurturing talent and rewarding success. We have a deep pool of highly qualified and dedicated employees, who can be challenged with more responsibility in attaining our corporate vision. “We remain committed to diversity and inclusion; are delighted by the depth and quality of experience that this leadership team brings to our group. These appointments further indicate our internal succession capacity and strong corporate governance practices.” Elumelu thanked Valentine Ozigbo for his achievements as CEO. He pledged  that the board of Transcorp would continue to implement its defined strategy, which  led its investee companies being leaders in their chosen sectors and had seen significant transformation, since  Elumelu’s holding company, Heirs Holdings invested in it in 2011. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com