As a member of the House Committee on Works, what steps have you taken to address the worrisome state of the Nigerian roads? Concerning the state of the Nigerian roads, it is in the public domain that there had been a lot of deficits in the past. The 9th Assembly had, however, made its position known that we would give all the necessary support to the Federal Ministry of Works and at the moment the proposal for the establishment of the Federal Road Authority and we are hoping that Mr President will accent to it. If that is done, hopefully, we would be able to bridge the gap. Beyond that, we have the challenge of funding. As of the last budget session, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said he had unpaid vouchers of over N300bn and there are also payment certificates for various jobs at different levels. If you add that to the unpaid vouchers we would be looking at the outstanding liability of over N500bn. So, what is the way out? The way out is to recognise some critical routes in the federation so that by the time the roads are done there will be free movement within the country. Another way out is to float a road bond that will help address the challenges of today. If we can do this and it is well subscribed, we would use the proceeds to finance our road projects. How optimistic are you that investors will subscribe to the road bond? Of course, I am sure. The moment they have confidence in the system and they know that the funds will be used for the construction of the roads, they will key into it. Beyond bonds, are there plans to encourage the Federal Government to collaborate with international investors on road constructions? Yes, that is why we have the Sukuk fund at the moment and there are other international bodies from which the Federal Government is sourcing for funds and monies from such pools are well utilised and that is why there is a level of steady work ongoing along the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway because it is not being financed through the regular IGR (Internally Generated Revenue). The same goes for the 2nd Niger Bridge and the Abuja/Kaduna road project. That is why there is steady progress in those ongoing projects. If they were to rely on the regular budgetary allocation we would not have made many projects. READ ALSO: It’s time for judiciary to wake up — Secondus To what extent is the Committee carrying out its oversight functions on road maintenance agencies? The truth is that most of these agencies are not well funded. What we have done lately is to discuss with the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and urged him to talk to his colleagues so that they can make a representation to Mr President to intervene on the road funds that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation is collecting. The corporation should make such funds available to the road maintenance agencies so that they can maintain the roads. There is a need for cooperation to get these problems solved. As a member of the Power Committee, are you concerned that with the huge funds that have gone into that sector we still don’t get regular electricity supply? For now, I think the Federal Government has tried on its part by privatising the generation and distribution sectors, it is only the transmission that is fully under the Federal Government. The end-users of the electricity supply chain are suffering because of the distribution companies. The Discos are saying that they do not have enough funds to upscale some of their obsolete equipment. There are areas where the feeder pillars are bad; where metering is also a problem; where transformers are also bad, among many others. There is a huge gap between what they (Discos) are getting and what they are giving out to the consumers. So, there is disconnect, and until that is resolved, the problem will still be there. We are having discussions with the Discos on how to tackle this. Even the Eko and Ikeja discos are seen as viable, they are complaining that there is still a huge deficit. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission has proposed a tariff price hike as from April this year, but the consumers are worried that they are not getting services on what they are paying for? I am not making a case for them but the reality is that if you want quality services we must be able to pay for it. Conservatively the number of consumers paying for electricity at the moment is about nine million, whereas if they were to capture the total number of consumers, it should be in the region of 30 million houses. So, what we have told them (Discos) is that they must improve on their infrastructure and if they can do that they might get more consumers into the net. If this happens, the issue of tariff increase may be marginal. They (Discos) are grappling with illegal consumers who are more than the legal consumers. Something must be done to bring everybody into the net. The President recently approved N37bn for the renovation of the National Assembly Complex, isn’t that too huge for just renovation? When you look at the figure, you will think that it is huge but have you quantified the scope of work to be done? The budget is a function of the scope of work to be done. For me, I know the figure is justified because Mr President has approved it. The push for Lagos to be given that special status as a former federal capital is been on for a while, what stage is it now? We have been on it for a while and it is an ongoing matter in the National Assembly. It is just like the issue of local government areas where we are also pressing for the 37 local council development areas to be recognised, it is a collective responsibility. Yes, Lagos used to be the seat of the Federal Government where a lot of infrastructures are left behind. Look at Western Avenue, about 10 years ago we made a case for the repairs of the road because it is a federal road, but at last, it was Lagos State Government that eventually renovated it and till date, the money has not been refunded. When you have an economic nerve centre that used to be the seat of government and you are transferring all the responsibilities to the state, they cannot cope. Look at the Apapa/Oshodi expressway too, it was not until the Federal Government saw the need to intervene, that they started work on it. We must be able to support the road infrastructure, especially in Lagos, to evacuate goods from the sea port.  We have a lot of challenges. So, it is imperative to concede that special status recognition to Lagos State. The recently conducted Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections raised some doubts over the credible conduct of elections, especially in 2023, what can we do to get it right? I believe that we are on the right path. You see, our people need a lot of sensitisation campaigns to make them know that their Permanent Voter Card is their power. But the complaint from the people is that the election has more to do with the use of thugs in collaboration with security operatives… Yes, the Independent National Electoral Commission has some huge tasks in this regard. They need to ensure that there is a mass mobilisation of the people on their rights and also to let them know that without their PVCs they cannot vote. I think that if the electronic devices for the conduct of the exercise, especially the card readers, are working well, I do not see how thugs could be organised to come and cart away INEC properties. READ ALSO: North has consistently assaulted the psyche of southerners – Okupe During your campaigns you made promises to the electorate, what steps are you taking to fulfil these promises? During my campaigns, I told my people that I will constantly make myself accessible to them and to a large extent I have kept to that promise. I christened the promise ‘Meet Your MP’, which is a Member of Parliament. So, once every month, I meet with them in my constituency office and we interact, they see me face to face to discuss issues bothering on their welfares. I identify with their challenges and problems and the ones that I can solve immediately I do not hesitate to solve them but those I cannot attend to immediately I push it forward. The key thing here is that there is an opportunity for an interactive session between my people and me and that is what representation is all about. We also have the opportunities of discussing critical issues affecting the constituency and fashion out ways of addressing them. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 