Wale Oyewale, Ibadan Two persons have been arrested by the men of the Oyo State Police Command in connection with the crisis rocking some local government council areas in the state. Local government councils in Oyo State have been dogged with controversies since the dissolution of the elected council chairmen in the state by Governor Seyi Makinde in May 2019. One Dotun Shomefun was said to have been arrested by the police on Monday in connection with the crisis that ensued Iresaadu in the Surulere Local Government Area of the state, leading to the death of Isah Azeez, while Ibrahim Raji, aged 30, was arrested in a related development at the gate of the Ibadan South-West Local Government Area. The police in a statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, Olugbenga Fadeyi, said Shomefun, the occupant of a black Acura Legend, was in police net. The suspect, who sustained gunshot injuries in the shoulder, was reportedly taken to an hospital in Ogbomoso by his group for treatment. It read, “The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Police Command, Shina Olukolu, is miffed at the unfortunate and needless death that occurred on day five of the crisis over the local government chairmanship tussle in the state that led to the death of one person while one other sustained gunshot injury in spite of the efforts at curbing the menace. “Shomefun is in police custody and will help in unravelling the perpetrators of this dastardly act. The Commissioner of Police had ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State Criminal Investigation Department, Iyaganku, Ibadan to immediately take over the case file and commence detailed investigation into the unfortunate incident with a view to preventing a recurrence of violence and bringing the perpetrators to justice.” It stated that the police arrested Raji at the gate of Ibadan South-West Local Government, Aleshinloye with a locally-made pistol and charms and also recovered a sack containing eight cutlasses, one axe and a UTC knife at the Ibadan South-East Local Government, Mapo. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 