Sunday Aborisade,  Abuja The Senate on Tuesday urged the Nigeria Police Force, Federal Road Safety Corps and Vehicle Inspection Officers to clamp down on erring drivers of trucks and other articulated vehicles plying the nation’s highways. The Senate gave the order following the increasing rate of road accidents caused by articulated vehicles in the country. It claimed that the vehicles were  plying the roads without compliance with the minimum prescribed safety requirements. The Senate’s directive was sequel to a motion moved by the Chairman,  Senate Committee on Local Content, Senator Teslim Folarin Folarin claimed that in 2017, there were 779  road traffic collisions involving trailers and tankers. He said the incidents resulted in 737 fatalities and 2,622  injuries. He said the statistics implied that an average of two Nigerians were killed every day and seven  seriously injured in 2017 as a result of trailer/tanker accidents. He further noted that the articulated vehicles’ accidents accounted for 28 per cent  of road accidents in Nigeria. He expressed displeasure that despite the release of the safety guidelines and regulations by the FRSC, the articulated vehicles drivers continued to disobey the guidelines. The Senate therefore directed its committee to investigate the adoption and implementation of the recommendations from the 2018 haulage Operators Stakeholders’ Summit among all relevant stakeholders. It further urged the Federal Government to establish trailer parks and introduce weigh  bridges along the highways. Meanwhile, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has said that the red chamber will  on Tuesday next week consider the report of its ad hoc committee on security challenges with a view to resolving Nigeria’s security problems. Lawan stated this at the plenary sequel to the consideration of a motion brought to the floor by Senator Aishatu  Ahmed on the attacks on some Adamawa communities. The Senate had, on January 29, 2020, set up the ad hoc  committee chaired by the Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, to interface with the security agencies on the level of insecurity in the country and report back to the upper chamber within two weeks. Lawan said the Senate would engage the executive arm of government on the resolutions of the ad hoc committee as contained in its report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 