Sola Shittu, Benin An Oredo Magistrates’ Court in Benin, Edo State, on Monday sentenced a 34-year-old man, Wisdom Sakpra, to one year in prison for stealing the sum of N110,000. Magistrate Ivie Akere sentenced Sakpra after he pleaded guilty to the two counts of conspiracy and stealing filed against him by the police. Sakpra was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment on each of the two counts without option of fine. Earlier, the police prosecutor, ASP Patrick Agbonifo, told the court that Sakpra was arrested on January 23, 2020 at a First Bank of Nigeria Limited branch at Adesuwa Junction, Sapele Road, Benin. “Sakpra and others at large specialised in robbing customers that go to the bank for withdrawals. He unlawfully stole a total of N110,000, property of Andrew Igbodidi,” he said. Agbonifo explained that the convict also confessed that he had robbed another bank customer, Ehis Unemhin, close to UBA on Textile Mill Road, Benin, adding that he used a handkerchief to wipe the victim’s face. “He said anytime he uses his handkerchief to wipe a victim’s face, the victim obeys all his instructions and directives,” Agbonifo added. The prosecutor noted that Unemhin was invited by the police and he confirmed the accused’s statement. Agbonifo said the offence contravened sections 516 and 390(9) of the Criminal Code Cap. 48 Vol. 11, Laws of the Defunct Bendel State of Nigeria, 1976, now applicable in Edo. In a related development, another Oredo Chief Magistrates’ Court in Benin on Monday sentenced a 31-year-old man, Adamu Gaji, to three years’ imprisonment for stealing two cows. The Chief Magistrate, Awawu Osayande, sentenced Gaji after she found him guilty of the one count of stealing filed against him. Osayande, however, gave the convict the option of paying a fine of N180,000. Earlier, the police prosecutor, Agbonifo, told the court that the convict on June 10, 2019 at Amagbe community stole two cows valued at N700,000. He said the cows were the property of one Mr Ogieriaki Omoruyi. The prosecutor said, “Mr Omoruyi employed Gaji to take care of his cows. On the fateful day, Gaji took the cows to the bush and did not return with the two cows.” The prosecutor said the offence contravened Section 390(8) (9) of the Criminal Code Cap. 48 Vol. 11, Laws of the defunct Bendel State of Nigeria, 1976, now applicable in Edo. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    