Maureen  Ihua-Maduenyi
The Edo State Government has said its newly refurbished Government Science and Technical College formerly known as Benin Technical College would offer vehicle maintenance services to members of the public. The state government explained that the move was part of its renewed mandate to leverage real-life practical as a key instruction component. According to the Project Supervisor, Omotayo Awonusi, the services will be offered at the maintenance building in the service yard of the college. Awonusi was quoted in a statement by the state government as saying that the service yard was undergoing construction after the delivery of the first phase of the college’s reconstruction project. He said, “The phase 1 of the project handed over to the state government last year consists of two new state-of-the-art classroom blocks, laboratories, libraries and workshops. “The modern library in the school has up-to-date books with a full complement of Information Communication Technology gadgets.” Awonusi said the service yard was being constructed to provide space for water treatment plant, which would provide water for use at the school and staff quarters. He noted that the maintenance building was targeted at generating funds for the school. “Members of the public can visit the school for their vehicle repairs ranging from fixing of tyres, wheel alignment, electrical works and other services,” he added. He said the plant would provide a steady supply of water and would house the power plant equipped with two electricity generating sets of 250 KVA each and a transformer of 132KVA powerline connected to the school. The School Principal, Mr Onaiwu Osazuwa, was also quoted as saying the reconstruction work at the college by the state government was a huge investment in the future of the state. Osazuwa added that the learning environment had become conducive with space for practical learning. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   