Dele Ogunyemi, Warri The people of Uhweru Kingdom in the Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State have exhumed the bodies of some of the victims of the weekend’s herdsmen attack on the community and were taken to the mortuary. About three corpses believed to have been victims of the onslaught were exhumed on Sunday after they had earlier been buried by members of the communities. The President-General of Uwheru Kingdom, Chief Cassidy Akpodafe, told journalists on Monday that the bodies were exhumed on Sunday after the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, visited the community. He described as false, the position of state police command on the alleged attacks by suspected herdsmen in some communities of the kingdom where no fewer than 10 persons were reportedly killed. The community said,  “What the police are saying is not true. Yesterday (Sunday) three corpses were taken to the mortuary. As we speak, seven persons are dead inside the bush and we have not recovered their bodies.   The three bodies taken to the mortuary were the ones we exhumed. The bodies were exhumed on Sunday after the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, visited the community. “Almost 17 persons have been rushed to the hospital for medical treatment. If you go to the Central Hospital, Ughelli, you will see them. The police should not cook a report that is not correct.” While appealing to the Delta State and the Federal Government to order the herdsmen to leave the community to enable the people of the area to return to their farms, Akpodafe said no fewer than 86 lives had been lost to herdsmen attacks in the kingdom in the last 12 years. He said, “All we need is that the Delta State and the Federal Government should order Fulani herdsmen to leave our land completely. If you add the present number, over 86 persons have been killed for almost 12 years that the herdsmen took over our farmlands. The Commissioner of Police for the State Command, Mr Hafiz Inuwa, had in a statement claimed that one person was recovered with bullet injuries by a search team, adding that the victim was receiving treatment at the Central Hospital, Ughelli. Inuwa had described the alleged killings in the community as misleading and capable of heating the polity in the state. Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, who visited the community on Sunday, also confirmed that some persons allegedly killed in the crisis were exhumed and had been taken to the Central, Hospital Ughelli for autopsy. Also confirming the exhuming of the dead bodies, the state Commissioner for Higher Education and leader in the kingdom, Prof. Patrick Muoboghare, alleged that the military forced people of the community to exhume the corpses. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 