Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Nigerian Communications Commission said on Tuesday that the problem of drop calls being experienced by telecommunications service subscribers would continue until further notice. The Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity at NCC, Mr Bako Wakil, said this while addressing the Joint National Assembly Committee on Communications at a public hearing. The event was also attended by the telecommunications providers, subscribers and other stakeholders in the industry. Wakil explained that the activities of bandits, construction firms and revenue generating and security agents would continue to hinder moves to address the challenge of drop calls. He said, “There is nothing we can do about drop calls because bandits usually cut telecommunications cables used by the service providers to connect their base stations.” He also said state agencies in charge of revenue collection usually shut down base stations at will and would insist on payment of debts before they would reopen the facilities. He said, “Apart from the activities of the bandits,  we also have the problem of state agencies  shutting down sites due to telecommunications service providers’ indebtedness.” He also identified the issue of the recent border closure as another factor that would not make it possible to put an end to drop calls for now. He said, “The current border closure has led to the shutting down of 200 base stations because of the no fuel near border towns policy. “We don’t have fuel to power the two generators at each of the base stations. “Some people are stealing even the generators and inverters at the stations. “In 2019 alone, about 200 generators and inverter batteries were stolen every month. “We also have the problem of local community residents denying us access to the base stations. “There were 1, 200 access denials per month in 2019 alone and the development affected service.” He also complained about the destruction of cables during road construction and non-extension of favourable forex policy to the telecommunications industry. The NCC helmsman said, “Road construction should not lead to removal of cables. Construction firms should provide duct where cables could be laid.” Senator Fatai Buhari, who moved the motion that led to the public hearing, said he moved similar motion in 2004 on drop calls. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 