Friday Olokor, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission may request for more money following the increase in the number of court-ordered rerun elections after the 2019 general elections. The commission, however, admitted that litigations remained the constitutionally recognised way of resolving electoral disputes. INEC Director of Voter Education and Publicity, Oluwole Osaze-Uzzi, gave this indication in an interview with The PUNCH in Abuja, on Thursday. He was reacting to enquiries on how court judgments had affected the budget and finances of INEC. Osaze – Uzzi said, “Litigation is the constitutionally recognised way of resolving electoral disputes and is the dispute resolution mechanism recognised by the constitution and our laws. “Access to justice through the courts is an essential part and cornerstone of every democracy and it is in recognition of this that funds are appropriated for this purpose for the commission, which is statutorily a necessary respondent in all election petitions. “We do have in our budget, provision for bye elections. But if we exceed this, we may ask for additional funds as and when the need arises to fulfil our constitutional mandate. We haven’t reached that stage yet.” Meanwhile, INEC has expressed regret over the performance of women in the 2019 general elections, saying they were schemed out even after winning primaries. While describing the performance of women as very poor, the commission said women who won primaries were sidelined by political parties, while others were disqualified from taking part. INEC Deputy Director and Head (Gender Division), Blessing Obidiegwu, said this during a consultative forum on sharing experiences for the conduct of 2nd peer review of Nigeria held in Abuja. Obidiegwu said, “In the 2019 general elections, women did not do well at all. Instead, they receded. We know why that happened. There are a lot of barriers around women participation in elections. “In 2019, women who won primaries, for some reasons, were set aside. A lot happened, especially the killing of a women leader in Kogi State. I was there. I sensitised women and told them everything would be okay. You can imagine my pain when I saw that woman died. “As an election management body that is gender responsive, we encourage women to participate in elections. We know that when we have men and women at the table taking decision, we will achieve better and our country will progress better and faster.” The Chief Executive Officer of AUDA-NEPA, Princess Gloria Akobundu, said the meeting otherwise called the African Peer Review Mechanism was set up to brainstorm on some of the challenges including mental illness, gender inequality and bad governance plaguing the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    