Knowing some microfinance bank CEOs are retiring soon, how is Accion Microfinance Bank faring in terms of succession planning? Accion Microfinance Bank sponsored a capacity-building seminar on succession planning recently. This is because we recognise the need to build a very strong finance institution. We have come to a point in the microfinance industry where you don’t need a few bright spots, you need the institution to be strong and resilient so that we can drive and be able to attract the confidence of the public. Of the close to 1,000 microfinance banks, very few are doing well. The failure of one negatively affects the industry. Each time you hear that a microfinance bank has closed down or that the regulators have issued a new directive that bank cannot meet, if that activity pervades the industry, it is an ill-wind that blows nobody any good. So, we are at Accion, yes, we are a leading microfinance bank, but we can also build a very strong institution. So, the thought first and foremost is that we don’t build strong companies, but build strong institutions. When you do that, and not just individuals, then the goal of financial inclusion can be easily achieved. We have looked at it and said we want to bring all microfinance banks to par with best global practices so that we can build confidence in the industry. What are your thoughts on risk management in the microfinance industry? In the microfinance banking space, I think the CBN has set a lot of risk parameters and ratios in place from liquidity risk to portfolio risk management and quite a number of that, based on the Basel III Accord. They looked at what the Basel III accord was and built a risk framework that is very strong. The one we are working with was built in 2012 and the Central Bank of Nigeria has revealed plans to introduce a fresh policy this year. So, the CBN is up to speed in trying to ensure that risk management is strengthened. The training we sponsored was to further ensure that microfinance banks are doing what the regulator wants them to do in their various organisations. Risk management is evolving and succession planning is critical. So, I would not want to score what has been done in that space, but risk management is evolving and we hope that a lot more microfinance institutions will be more conscious of that fact and apply the template the CBN has given. Looking at the increased loan-to-deposit ratio imposed by the CBN on banks, how would that affect microfinance banks? The microfinance institution is loan-led. So, we were significantly above that deposit level that the CBN is asking deposit money banks to attain. But the good news is that we have also seen a lot of deposit money banks trying to lend to microfinance banks for all lending for them to be able to meet up with the required threshold. It is good news to the microfinance industry because then you would see a lot more collaborations between microfinance banks and deposit money banks, thus creating the needed liquidity to the microfinance banks for all lending. So, for a deposit money bank that wants to increase its loan book but wants to manage the risk of lending to that sector of the economy that is considered risky, they look at microfinance banks that are doing it very well. So, rather than play into that market, they lend to these microfinance institutions, who then lend to those structures. I think it is a good development that will provide more liquidity for the economy and the initiative from the CBN will create a more positive growth in the economy. How would you rate people’s patronage of microfinance banks? Microfinance banks have impacted significantly the lives of the active poor and low-income earners by providing loans and other financial services that have catalysed and motivated them to get out of poverty. The impact has been very significant. At some point, we had to post customers’ testimonies online. In the last 10 years, we have seen people who started by borrowing N50,000 for their businesses and have grown to borrowing N10m. The impact of what we are doing is not just about the business, it’s also about the transformation that has happened in their lives. People take loans to send their children to school, build houses, expand their businesses and employ more people. We have a particular customer that has grown his business as a shoe seller and has about four shops within seven years. Now, he imports directly from China and is planning setting up his own manufacturing plant here in Nigeria. People are favourably disposed to borrowing from microfinance banks because we don’t have the complications commercial banks have in borrowing. What excites people is about the ease to get the loans and get a loan within 24 hours.  One can get a loan without security as a guarantor is sufficient, depending on the categories of loan. We have even options of using movable assets as securities. So, the ease to accessing loans and the quick turnaround time is encouraging customers to come. We have impacted over 500 customers in the last one year and we have over 60,000 active borrowers in our books. The impact has been good, which pushed us to take our footprints outside Lagos. Last year, there were flood and fire incidents in Port Harcourt and some clashes that affected some our customers, whose goods were destroyed in places like Uyo, Abia, and Port Harcourt, among others. We partnered with insurance companies to give loans to these people to help them put their businesses back in shape, depending on the value of goods destroyed. We go beyond the loan, we counsel and make sure that people’s business grows beyond the start-up. Does the bank restrict loans disbursement based on purpose? People take loans for many reasons, either for business or to improve their lot in life. So, you can take a loan to improve your living condition. But we tend to discourage consumption loan without cash flow to back it up. So, if you’re going to take a loan for consumption or that would not generate flow of income for you, we encourage that people have steady source of income to be able to offset the loans. We have consumer loans and commercial loans; all loans are necessary, which is why the banks have a responsibility to work with the borrower to ensure that you have the capacity to repay the amount to be taken. You can take a loan, but it is the evaluation process that would determine how the loan would be repaid or how it would perform. Is Accion Microfinance bank looking to list on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in the foreseeable future? That would have to be a board decision, but we’re open to throwing a lot of things that would project our aspirations, goals and strategic objectives. It is a possibility, but it is not a discretion that has been taken yet. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   