John Charles, Makurdi The crisis rocking the Benue State chapter of the All Progressives Congress deepened on Friday. The crisis started after the party’s loss in the 2019 General Elections. A member of the party in the state, Boniface Ortese, had petitioned the national headquarters of the party and called for the suspension of the state’s party Chairman and Secretary, Abba Yaro and Mark Hanmation, respectively. In a letter addressed to the national chairman of the party, a copy of which was made available to our correspondent in Makurdi, Ortese alleged that the two party officials manipulated the report of the conduct of the 2018 state congress of ward, local government and state executive polls of the party. Ortese alleged that the two party officials failed to convey party stakeholders meeting to declare the number of persons that bought forms, money generated from sale of forms, money realised from administrative charges on the sale of forms and expenses incurred as well as balance remaining in the state party’s treasury. He said, “When it was time for the primaries, the state chairman and the state organising secretary held their list different from that of the exco elected during the 2018 Congress. This became the first problem the party encountered on the journey to the 2019 General Elections. “These ugly attitudes contributed immensely to the failure of the party at the said election.” But the accused persons described Ortese as an agent of destabilisation. In an interview, the party chairman, Abba Yaro, said the petition was ‘baseless’ since the petitioner was not a financial member of the party. “Ortese is nobody in the party; he is an agent of destabilisation. It is only when you are a financial member of the party that you complain about the party. “On the issue of election funds, Ortese is one of those who collected money but didn’t deliver; he didn’t go to Guma to vote because he was bought over. He is not a card-carrying member of the party because his name is not in our register.” The Organising Secretary of the party in the state, Mark Hanmation, said Ortese did not know the workings of the party because he was not a member of the party. “The originator of the petition does not know the internal workings of the APC and as such, the allegations are baseless; he is not a member of the party; so I don’t know where he is getting those allegations from.” On his alleged anti-party activities, Hanmation challenged Ortese to present proof that he worked for another party during the 2019 General Elections. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com