Ife Ogunfuwa The Nigerian Communications Commission has acknowledged that the deployment of 5G will be difficult if power supply remained inconsistent in the country. The commission added that extensive fibre infrastructure deployment at the last-mile would also facilitate the deployment of 5G. The Nigerian Communications Commission stated this during a discussion with Nigerians at a special panel session at the Social Media Week Lagos. The Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity at NCC, Bako Wakil, and an Assistant Director in the Spectrum Administration Department  of the Commission, Kenneth Uzoekwe, addressed participants at the event. Speaking on the topic: ‘5G Networks: Socioeconomic benefits and challenges’, Wakil said Nigeria would derive huge socio-economic benefits from commercial deployment of the 5G, which would boost the economy. He explained that all communication possibilities that allowed extremely accurate and near-instantaneous transfer of large quantities of data could be achieved with 5G. Wakil said 5G technologies would ensure better experience of virtual realities, driverless cars, drone operations and the Internet of Things. Wakil described 5G as the newest generation of technology which “will bring about transformation in the country in the area of smart city, smart transportation, efficiency in medicine, a lot of automation, and 5G will control a lot of appliances and devices with respect to Internet of Things.” “The difference between all other existing generations of technologies such as 2G, 3G and 4G lies in speed and data capacity. The 5G deployment, however, offers even faster speed, high latency and high capacity that will transform consumers and business experiences” Wakil emphasised. He noted that while the Federal Ministry  of Communications and Digital Economy was coordinating the NCC, the National Frequency Management Council, and the National Broadband Plan to address broadband infrastructure deficits, the poor state of electricity supply in the country needed to be addressed by other sectors of the economy because that matter was outside the purview of the NCC. Wakil explained that the NCC, having adopted the Open Access Model for enhanced broadband infrastructure deployment, it had licensed six out of seven proposed infrastructure companies to deploy fibre access in all the 774 local government areas of Nigeria. Speaking about NCC’s preparedness for commercial 5G, Uzoekwe said there was enough spectrum bands that had been identified and could be used for the deployment of 5G. “Six spectrum bands have been identified, so I can say we have enough spectrum bands. All we need now is to finalise the re-plan and re-farm so that those occupying certain spectra can be relocated to other bands,” Uzoekwe said. Uzoekwe stated that the InfraCo Projects would help to bridge the 200 access gaps involving some 35 million Nigerians, who have no access to telecom services. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 