Anna Okon Experts from the Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta have urged the federal and state governments to invest in data to address unemployment in Nigeria. The Deputy Executive Director, PIND, Tunji Idowu, during the maiden edition of the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund employment summit tagged Showcasing Leading Practices for Job Creation said the lack of data for planning on the side of the state governments was a challenge to job creation. Speaking during the summit, which was held to discuss unemployment and the future of jobs in Africa, Idowu said data were reliable sources of information about the market. He said, “Data will tell you how many people are gainfully employed, how many are not, how many are unemployed, what kind of skills the market requires, what needs to happen and what you need to pay attention to. “Data help to plan and design interventions so that they are relevant to the market space.” He added that data from the National Bureau of statistics were not enough, that they needed to be complemented by data created by the various states. Idowu said, “State governments either individually or collectively should invest in data to ensure there is valid data from their areas because when data exist, they themselves will be able to benefit from better quality decision making and better analysis to inform their own decisions. “The governments should take the lead to have an integrated systematic way of collecting, sharing data and making it available for use. If that is available, organisations implementing a project do not spend extra money doing that. “They can access that and be faster on the job of getting things done while also saving money they would have spent on fresh analysis on actual interventions.” Idowu, whose organisation empowers aquaculture, palm oil and cassava farmers in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria, also identified market distortion as a challenge to job creation. He said PIND and a few organisations approached the economic growth project using market systems development approach. Also speaking, the Executive Director, Niger Delta Employment Pathways, Emeka Ile, while sharing PIND’s model that had created jobs in the Niger Delta, urged state governments to adopt the same model, which according to him, was demand-led. He said, “We are not just training people who will not find space in the market. We have to train them in skills to allow them to get into the market space. “As we train them, we also have placement; to provide work for them or to empower them to  provide work for themselves, through entrepreneurship, so they could be in a position to employ other people.” The Senior Special Adviser to the President on job creation, Mr Afolabi Imoukhuede, urged the private sector to lead the way in jobs and opportunities creation. He advised the state governments to provide good policy and the enabling environment for the private sector to thrive. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   