Chima Azubuike, Gombe The Deputy Nutrition Officer, Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Abubakar Saleh, has said 94 under-five children in the state were lost to Severe Acute Malnutrition in 2019. Saleh stated this in his address in Gombe State at a one-day retreat for relevant committees in the Bauchi State House of Assembly on the Prevention and Treatment of Severe Acute Malnutrition by four consortiums; namely, International Society of Media and Public Health, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Aisha Buhari Foundation and Network for Health Equity Development. He said out of 20 Local Government Areas in the state, the community-based management of acute malnutrition was present in only nine LGAs. He explained that based on 2019 update, “24,133 children were admitted, out of which 22,133 recovered, leaving 94 children dead. Also, 84 others were transferred, but 311 did not recover. “Out of 20 LGAs in the state, it is only nine LGAs that have a community-based management of the Severe Acute Malnutrition centres. “In the nine LGAs, there are 21 centres; three LGAs with five each and six LGAs have one each.” He added that based on a National Nutrition and Health Survey of 2018, Bauchi had 45.6 per cent of children with stunted growth. Meanwhile, the Speaker, Bauchi State House of Assembly, Abubakar Suleiman, has described the malnutrition issue in the state as alarming, promising that the state assembly would declare a state of emergency on malnutrition. “Actually, the situation of SAM in Bauchi is seriously alarming. Having come to know about this issue, we as representatives of the people will go back, sit down and call the people at the ministry so that we can have a roundtable discussion with them. This is so that we can point out where the problems are and we will surely do something to turn the situation around. The assembly will declare a state of emergency on malnutrition,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com