Sunday Aborisade,  Abuja The Senate on Tuesday began the process of resolving the competition crisis between two soft drinks manufacturing giants, Messrs 7-Up  Bottling Company  and Rites Foods Limited, makers of Bigi brands. The Senate took the decision when representatives of the two soft drinks firms appeared before the Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions. They were invited by the panel led by Senator Ayo Akinyelure following a petition by the lawyers to the Rites Foods Limited against the 7-Up Bottling Company. Rather than allowing the parties defend their cases at a public hearing, the Senate panel decided to attend to them behind closed doors. The meeting lasted two hours, and the two parties were asked to hold a meeting to resolve the conflict among them. Akinyelure told journalists after the closed session that both parties had been asked to return in two weeks after their peace meeting. He said, “We have been able to sit the two managements together because we believe that the issue is a matter that can be resolved amicably through the instrument of alternative conflict resolution that will bring more result to the country. “There was never an intention to say that they want to kill the indigenous company. “The interpretation from the e-mail is unfounded as the e-mail has two attachments dwelling on how they could compete favourably and still take their market lead. “I decided to hold a closed door meeting in my office with both parties and at the end of the meeting attended by senior members of the Senate. “A company that engages 2000 Nigerians in her employ and then the other having a higher figure of 5, 000 in her employment. “It is our wish as a Senate to see them progress, adding more value to the country than issues that will destroy them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    