Leke Baiyewu, Abuja the House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the slow pace of rehabilitation and expansion works on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano road and the Second Niger Bridge. Those to be investigated are: The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, Julius Berger and other contractors engaged for the projects. This resolution followed the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by Mr Ifeanyi Momah at the plenary on Thursday. The House subsequently mandated its Committee of Works to “determine if the contractors have the capacity to deliver the contracts awarded as scheduled.” The committee is to also “investigate the level of work done on Lagos-lbadan Expressway, Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano Expressway and 2nd Niger Bridge in order to determine if the amount disbursed so far has a commensurate value with the job done till date.” The committee is to report back to the House within four weeks. Earlier while moving the motion, Momah said, “There is evidence of slow pace of work on these three critical projects, namely Lagos Ibadan Expressway, Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano Expressway and the 2nd Niger Bridge. “These critical projects were designated to be funded under the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund domiciled at Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority to ensure proper and prompt funding. Despite the prompt release of funds by NSIA, the projects are lagging behind schedule. “As of December 2019, NSIA has released the following amounts: N19, 520,949,317.16 to Section 1 of Lagos Ibadan-Expressway; N80,242,079,039.46 to the 2nd Niger Bridge; N50,856,044,301.27 to Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano road, totaling the sum of N150,619,072,657.89. “There is also a potential conflict of interest in Julius Berger’s involvement in the 2nd Niger Bridge. The 2nd Niger Bridge is made up of 3 sections: Phase 1 is the bridge, Phase 2a is Benin to Asaba expressway and Phase 2b is Onitsha to Enugu expressway. “Phase 1 of the job was to be awarded on a Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer basis under a Public-Private-Partnership scheme. Phase 2a and 2b were to be awarded as traditional contracts. The same job has now been (allegedly) awarded to Julius Berger for N206bn, as against the cost of N118bn valued by Bureau of Public Procurement.” According to the lawmaker, a Swiss challenge bid process ought to be adopted to avoid a potential conflict of interest. “Julius Berger is involved in all these three critical projects and other major road projects under SUKUK. All these projects are lagging behind schedule, which brings to fore Julius Berger’s capacity to handle the projects simultaneously,” Momah said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    