Sunday Aborisade, Abuja A bill to provide enabling framework that would legalise all forms of electronic transactions undertaken in Nigeria, scaled second reading on the floor of the Senate on Thursday. If passed and signed into law, the legislation will also prohibit and criminalise online fraud. It will also make it legally possible to admit evidence of electronic transactions between parties in court during proceedings. The bill was sponsored by Senator Ibikunle Amosun. Amosun, in his lead debate, said the online transactions in the United States hit $3tn in 2014 alone. He said online transactions account for well over $10tn in sales of goods and service globally. Amosun said that the European Union in the year 2000 approved a directive on electronic commerce which required member-states to implement same. He said, “The United Kingdom passed the Electronic Communications Act 2000. Even our African neighbour, South Africa passed the Electronic Communications and Transactions Act, 25 of 2002. “All the developed countries, including Malaysia, China, India, Brazil, Singapore, Japan, etc. have laws on electronic contract, and this has resulted into remarkable increase in their business transactions.” The lawmaker, however, lamented that Nigeria’s extant laws provide inadequate protection for e-commerce businesses and consumers in the country. “Every day, we are involved in electronic contracting, either through the use of the Automated Teller Machine to transact business or when we book our flight tickets online. “These electronic transactions, which are the ones we can manage now, are not covered by our legal regime. “How can we now talk of contracts running into billions of dollars between two machines programmed to process sales and purchase orders? Such complex transactions cannot be contemplated in our present circumstances. “Yet, if we must tap into the global market, we must move with the trend of the market, we must move with time and have in place a legal framework that will deal with issues such as this,” Amosun said. The lawmaker said when the bill eventually becomes law, all challenges arising from jurisdiction and authentication in matters dealing with contracts would be accordingly resolved. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    