Success Nwogu, Abuja A factional 2019 Ogun State governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic, Ladi Adebutu, on Wednesday said factions no longer existed in the state chapter of the party. He spoke when he led 10 members of the state working committee, including those loyal to the leader of the second faction in the state,  Buruji Kashamu, to the national leadership of the party in Abuja. Adebutu said, “In these 12 years, we have had two parallel executives in the state. This culminated in a situation where in the last election when the party produced me as the candidate of the party, the other faction had another candidate. At the end of the day, we lost the election. “Today, it is my pleasure to present to you the state working committee of the other faction. Our own faction has been at peace and we have been recognised by the National Working Committee of the party. And I am happy to present to you the Secretary of the Ogun faction of the PDP, by name Semiu Sodipo. “One is still at loggerheads with us because he was a candidate in the last election. But interestingly, out of the 13 that are left, 10 are presently very active with the PDP national headquarters. Three are still drifting in and out.” In his remarks, Sodipo said “We have realised that controlling the structure, does not mean controlling the people. And it does not really translate to victory. I now look at the whole thing, what can we do? Except we do what is necessary, without the national headquarters working with us, we will not make any progress.” Responding, the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, said, “It is very clear that only the national body, that can in conjunction with the state, conduct all congresses, primaries and can submit list of their candidates to INEC. The law is very clear and anything contrary to that is against the law. “We are happy that our party in Ogun State have come together and we will give you all the support. Please, don’t be distracted, we also want to appeal to the judiciary to help the party, so that the party can move on.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com ­