Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo THE Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Tuesday, said the executive council would look into the recommendations of the Education Policy Review Committee, which recommended a reversal of some policies introduced by his predecessor. Oyetola, while speaking at the maiden edition of a civic engagement programme tagged, “Apero” held at Akinorun Grammar School, Ikirun, said no decision had been taken on the recommendations. He promised to sustain payment of full salary to workers and declared that his administration had prevented wasteful spending. He said, “I will continue to pay full salary of workers and God will continue to help us. How we are managing to use the little resources accrued to the state to achieve a lot is not by magic. “But rather, we manage what comes in  by not engaging in a wasteful spending.” Earlier, the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, explained that the programme was initiated to provide avenue for the government to interact with citizen of the state. Meanwhile, a commissioner in the cabinet of ex-governor Rauf Aregbesola, Kolapo Alimi, on Tuesday, said Oyetola, could review some of the policies introduced by his predecessor. Alimi, while featuring on Frank Talk, a programme aired by Rave FM, a private radio station monitored in Osogbo, alongside the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, said Aregbesola, before leaving office, reviewed some of his policies. He said, “Policies of the government are meant to achieve certain things; least the welfare of the people. Even while Aregbesola was there, we review the policy on uniform.” Ismail Omipidan, in his contribution to the discussion, said during the ‘Thank You Tour’ embarked upon by Oyetola after his election, people told him to take another look at some of the education policies. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 