Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin The Ilorin Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission  says it  has arrested a senior official of the Kwara State Ministry of Finance, Mrs Olajumoke Oyawoye, for allegedly defrauding jobseekers. Among those   who allegedly fell victim to  the scam  were a   pastor and  his church members. Oyawoye, a level 14 officer in the ministry,  allegedly received about  N3m from her victims whom she had promised to help secure state and federal jobs. In  a statement  by  its spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, on Monday, the EFCC  said   trouble started when two  of the victims  petitioned  its  Ilorin office,  alleging that  Oyawoye had defrauded them. “I met her on  April  27, 2018 in my church in Offa, where  she informed me and other church members that she was  helping  people to  get employment with the Kwara State Civil Service Commission and some Federal Government’s parastatals.  She told me that the money for the state employment was N250,000 per slot while the one for federal parastatal job  was  N350,000 per slot,” the statement quoted one of the petitioners as  saying. “I met her again in Ilorin and   I  informed her that my children and other church members are interested in both the state and federal appointments including  the Nigeria Immigration Service.  She gave me three forms with the names of interested applicants. I gave her the sum of N2m and (she)  said  the applicants had already been employed. “In September 2018,  I discovered that all what she said was false and the people she collected money from through me were pestering me to return their money  and she kept giving me a series of excuses,” the petitioner added. The EFCC said  its operatives recovered  from the suspect’s home  the curriculums vitae of her victims, letters of offer of appointment of both the Kwara State Civil Service Commission and federal parastatals, among others. The anti-corruption body  said  Oyawoye  would  be arraigned  after investigation. Oyawoye  is  the second person  to be arrested for alleged employment scam in the  state. Her arrest came after a  lecturer at the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Illyas Abdulwasiu, was arrested for allegedly defrauding people with a promise to get them employment in the institution. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    