Luxury home owners are on their way to becoming the arch-rival for gold nowadays, Yes, they are! Although not a conventional choice, investing in real estate considering the timing is a great profitable investment for you. The emergence of disruptive policies this past year has cemented buyers’ trust in real estate as a viable investment choice. Given the fact that luxury homes are always in demand even on the secondary market, we correctly see them as the perfect investment opportunity that guarantees multiplied returns in the future for you. While the investment is often considered a splurge, in recent times, luxury homes have proven to be a practical investment that issues better returns in the long term with Signatoria homes actively championing this fact. What makes a 3-Bed duplex in Signatoria so majestic you might ask? It’s not just the cutting-edge technology used in construction or the exceptional partnership with international A-list builders and constructors. It’s not just the 100 years of concrete quality guarantee or the exquisite European architecture. It is majestic because they built it for royalty and that is YOU. They have hit a home run with this unparalleled 3-Bed duplex that is quickly set to become the epitome of unrestrained luxury in lkoyi. Dwelling in a class of its own, their prestigious 3 Bed Duplex will sit in 7 storeys of opulence that is built with timeless craftmanship to offer you the ultimate taste in lavish luxury. Their home features luxurious apartments, tastefully appointed interiors, 2 terraces, beautiful dining areas, fitted kitchens and cabinets, family lounge, spacious bathrooms with access to world-class amenities where you and your loved ones can create precious and timeless moments. Asides the inexplicable luxury it offers, buying a Signatoria 3-Bed Duplex is the most incomparable and the most attractive investment opportunity currently on the market. Featuring the lowest entry price amongst its counterparts, Signatoria provides you with over 50% returns on your investment within the first 3 years of purchase. Your Signatoria home is sure to appreciate over time and provide you with passive income whilst growing & building your wealth portfolio. FOR MORE INFORMATION: INSTAGRAM- https://www.instagram.com/foreshorewaters/ FACEBOOK- https://web.facebook.com/ForeshoreWaters1/ WEBSITE– www.fwl.ng EMAIL-  info@fwl.ng
For Enquiries Call: 08149906695, 08149906658, 09062547773 