Access Bank Plc has announced its intention to list its N15 billion 15.50 percent fixed rate unsecured climate-credential green bond with five-year maturity on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The bank in a statement to the Nigerian Stock Exchange on Monday informed the investing community that it had applied to list the green bonds on the LuxSE, but stressed that the paper would not be traded on the stock exchange. The statement signed by its Company Secretary, Sunday Ekwochi said, “Access Bank Plc wishes to notify the Nigerian Stock Exchange and the investing public that the bank has applied to the Luxembourg Stock Exchange for the admission of the above mentioned instrument on the official list of LuxSE. Please note that the Bonds would not be traded on LuxSE.” Access Bank recently listed the N15 bn green bond on the Nigerian Stock Exchange and the FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange. The five-year, 15.5 per cent fixed rate senior unsecured green bonds, which would mature on March 18, 2024, was described as the first-ever climate bonds standard certified corporate green bond to be issued in Africa. The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Access Bank Plc, Mr Herbert Wigwe, while speaking on the bond stated,  “With our pace-setting experience in mainstreaming of sustainability in our business operations, we are confident that this green bond will further help in supporting environmentally friendly investors to meet their investment objectives, while simultaneously supporting the bank’s customer towards realising growth opportunities in the fast-developing low carbon economy.” The Associate Executive Director, Capital Markets, FMDQ, Ms Tumi Sekoni, congratulated the issuer for the successful issue of the green bond in the Nigerian debt capital market. She said the bond would help to address climate and environmental challenges in a sustainable manner to deliver prosperity for Nigerians and further deepen the domestic debt capital market by increasing the range of investible debt securities in the markets, invariably contributing to Nigeria’s development. She reiterated the FMDQ’s commitment to continue to create awareness and drive education for green financing, thereby facilitating the development of the green bond market in Nigeria. The Managing Director, Investment Banking, Chapel Hill Denham, Mrs Kemi Awodein, said, “Chapel Hill Denham is proud to have acted as lead arranger and financial adviser to Access Bank on Nigeria’s and Africa’s first climate bond certified corporate green bond. “This is another first-of-a-kind deal for both Access Bank and Chapel Hill Denham and this demonstrates our leadership in DCM innovation and our commitment to doing work that delivers positive impact for Nigeria’s future. A commitment to advancing sustainable development goals is imperative in Nigerian and debt markets in providing us many solutions.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com