Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State Police Command has warned students against staging a protest over the continued detention of the Students’ Union President of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Adegboye Olatunji. Olatunji was arrested, paraded and detained by the police for his alleged involvement in cult activities. A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, on Sunday, threatened that any student caught in a demonstration over the matter would face the law. The National Association of Nigerian Students had earlier called for a state-wide protest over the arrest of Olatunji. The Ogun State Chairman of NANS,  Tomiwa Bamgbose, in a statement on Sunday, said students across the state would embark on a mass protest to demand the unconditional release of the student leader. Bamgbose added that the protest would hold across the state on Monday. The NANS chairman also insisted that there was no truth in the allegation by the police that the embattled SUG president was a cult member. The statement read in part, “NANS Ogun uses this medium to notify all gallant and ever combatant Nigerian students about tomorrow’s peaceful protest to demand the immediate and unconditional release of the SUG president, Ilaro. “It is no longer news that the president was arrested last week Sunday as a result of a conspiracy against his good intention to liberate his fellow students. “I write with total bitterness in my heart to inform all Nigerian students that comrade Olatunji, after being tortured to confess what he knew nothing about by the police, has sustained a lot of injuries in detention. “This level of injustice must stop. We must fight for our brother; remember that an injustice to one is an injustice to all. “The leadership of NANS Ogun hereby summons all radical and ideological comrades to come out in great numbers to protest this injustice against our constituency. “The protest is scheduled to take place simultaneously at Ilaro to demand the postponement of the examination until TJ is released and also in Abeokuta to intimate the governor about the highest level of victimisation of students going on under his administration. “The meeting point in Abeokuta is NNPC Leme by 7am.” But the police said all the command’s tactical squads had been activated and deployed to nip in the bud any act of violence capable of jeopardising the peace of the state. Oyeyemi, in the statement, said, “An intelligence report at the disposal of the Ogun State Police Command indicates that some misguided students are planning to stage a state-wide protest in Ogun State in solidarity with the suspended SUG president of Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, who was recently arrested for cultism. “The aim of the protest is to disrupt the semester examination of the institution scheduled for Monday, February 17, 2020, and disturb the peace of the state in general. “In view of this, the Ogun State Police Command wishes to advise parents and guardians to warn their children and wards not to involve themselves in any activity capable of disrupting the peace enjoyed by the good people of Ogun State as the command will view such with seriousness.” Oyeyemi said the state Commissioner of Police, CP Kenneth Ebrimson, had deployed anti-riot policemen around the polytechnic to ensure that there would be no breakdown of law and order. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  