Rasheed Bisiriyu Airbus along with the Government of Quebec now holds 75 per cent of the A220 programme, following the withdrawal of Bombardier from the programme, a report by Simple Flying has stated. The Airbus A220 programme was initially known as the Bombardier C-Series until Airbus took a 51 per cent stake in the programme in July 2018 and was renamed the Airbus A220. Last month, Simple Flying reported that Bombardier was looking to reconsider its A220 deal with Airbus. Last week, the aviation authority predicted that Airbus could take Bombardier’s stake in the A220. “The largest change is that Bombardier will no longer be involved in the Airbus A220 programme. According to Airbus, the company has transferred its remaining interest in Airbus Canada to both Airbus and the Quebec Government,” it stated in its latest report. “As a result, Airbus Canada is now wholly owned by Airbus and the Government of Quebec. While the government holds 25 per cent of the entity, Airbus’ share has increased to 75 per cent. The manufacturer has said that this will secure 3,300 jobs at Airbus Canada in Quebec,” it added. Bombardier is expected to receive a consideration payment of $591m with regard to the transaction. In December, the 100th Airbus A220 was delivered, according to the report. It also stated that adding the Airbus name to the aircraft had increased interest in the programme. According to the manufacturer, orders have increased by 64 per cent in the past one and a half years. It stated, “They now stand at 658 aircraft across both the A220-100 and A220-300. Additionally, just this morning, start-up Green Africa announced a memorandum of understanding for 50 Airbus A220-300 aircraft. “While carriers such as airBaltic are looking to exclusively move to the A220, other major carriers such as Air France are also placing serious orders for the type.” The report indicated that there were a number of American carriers with A220 orders including David Neeleman’s Breeze. Airbus, it noted, had thus begun manufacturing the Airbus A220 at its mobile plant. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   