Samson Folarin Men of the Lagos State Police Command, on Tuesday, reportedly attacked some workers of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi, during a protest against the Director-General of the institute, Chima Igwe. PUNCH Metro learnt that the workers were singing solidarity songs and demanding the suspension of Igwe when the policemen entered the agency’s premises and brutalised the protesters. Two of the protesters were also arrested as the Chairman of the Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions, Togunde Mumeen, escaped. FIIRO has been embroiled in a crisis since 2019 after it was discovered that Igwe did not have a certificate to support his claim to a doctoral degree. The governing board of the institute had recommended to the Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, that another officer should be appointed the acting director-general because of the controversy, which was being investigated by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission. But the recommendation was rejected and the 57-year-old became the interim head of the agency. However, investigations by our correspondent showed that Igwe had yet to complete his studies at the Universite d’Abomey-Calavi, Benin Republic, where he claimed to have bagged the degree more than 18 years ago. His supervisor, Prof. Mansour Moudachirou, and the Director of the School of Postgraduate of the school, Prof. Joel Tossa, said Igwe would not be issued the certificate until he had defended his thesis. Protests broke out at FIIRO three weeks ago as the workers demanded the suspension of Igwe, citing relevant extant public service rules. After failed attempts by a delegation from the supervising ministry to end the protests,  the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, and the personnel of the Department of State Services interrogated the union leaders. Some policemen were subsequently deployed in the institute last Friday. Despite the daily deployment of policemen on the premises, the workers carried on with the protest. However, the SSAUTHRIAI Chairman, Mumeen, said the workers were attacked on Tuesday. “While we were staging the peaceful protest, policemen suddenly barged in and started attacking our people. They arrested two workers. We had to withstand them until those arrested were released. There were about eight policemen,” he stated. The union leader said when he sensed that the cops wanted to apprehend him, he called some of his friends in the army, who rescued him. Mumeen insisted that the protest would continue until Igwe was suspended. The Chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Research Institutions, Elakhame Zebair, also confirmed the incident, adding that the policemen were attached to the Mushin Division. He said, “We learnt that those who came today (Tuesday) were different from those who came on Monday. Those, who came on Monday were from the command headquarters in Ikeja. They know the law that Nigerians are entitled to peaceful protests. They observed us and after we finished the protest, they left. “But the ones, who came today (Tuesday) as we were rounding up, started arresting people. We the leaders of the union were their targets. When they could not get us, they went after our members. It was really terrible. “The information we got was that the policemen came from Mushin. We suspect that somebody brought them to intimidate and harass us.” Some of the policemen were identified as Asaolu David, Akingbemiro Olusegun, Adebisi Sunday, Dehemein Segun and Akaowu A. Dauda. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bala Elkana, said he had not been briefed about the development, but promised to react after making some enquiries. He had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  