Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi SIFAX Group, the parent company of Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc has said it plans to expand its operations into five African countries in the next five years. The group with diversity in aviation, haulage and logistics, maritime, and oil and gas among others, made this known at SAHCO’s customer appreciation dinner in Lagos where it also unveiled its latest venture, SIFAX SAHCO Travels. The Group Managing Director of SIFAX, Adekunle Oyinloye, said the group had been strategising on expanding in its various business segments. He said, “SIFAX Group began 32 years ago and today, in logistics we are well placed. We pride ourselves as a global company, creating at least 4, 000 direct employments as a group and in the next five years, we plan to expand to a minimum of five African countries at both air and sea ports.” He stated that SAHCO as part of the group had created over 1, 500 direct jobs and had plans to further expand its operations. The Chairman of SIFAX Group, Mr Taiwo Afolabi, who was represented by the Vice Chairman, Mr Chike Ogeah, said as a publicly quoted company, SAHCO’s processes had been transparent. He also urged the government to create a better environment for airlines and other service providers in the aviation industry to thrive. He stated that if investors continued to experience the problems they had been faced with in the industry, businesses would be impacted negatively. The Managing Director of SAHCO, Mr Basil Agboarumi, said the company had embarked on various projects to offer clients safe and speedy services. He explained that in 2019, the company acquired a fleet of ultra-modern Ground Support Equipment, adding that in an effort to boost cargo handling services, SAHCO also took delivery of cargo scanning machines as well as constructed a state-of-the art cargo transit warehouse for perishable goods. He said, “We have expanded the export warehouse facility so we can satisfactorily attend to the needs of our clients while also encouraging export cargo shipment in Nigeria. “No doubt, these measures have boosted the confidence of our clients in the service we provide. We shall ensure that we do not only provide services but also ensure it is done in accordance with best practice.” He stated that in 2020, the company planned to sustain the gains of 2019. “We are at an advanced stage to procure more equipment fitted with latest technology to meet up with our projected ever expanding clientele. We intend to expand our perishable export warehouse,” he said. He said the company would also complete its second commercial building to provide more office space for its clients. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com