Peter Dada and Daud Olatunji Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Wale Oyewale, Ibadan Speakers of the South-West Houses of Assembly will meet on Wednesday (today) in Ibadan over the Amotekun bills, which went public hearing in five states on Monday. The Chairman, House Committee on Information, Mr Gbenga Omole, who disclosed this in an interview with The PUNCH on Tuesday, said the speakers would share experiences from the public hearing on the bill. Omole said, “After the meeting of the Conference of South West Speakers tomorrow (Wednesday) where the speakers of the six states would compare notes, there would be a meeting in their various Houses where all those things will be collated at the third reading. So with all these, I don’t think passing the bill will be possible this week. Let’s say next week.” On whether non-indigenes would be included in the corps, the Ondo House spokesman said the non-indigenes that had been living in the community for a long time and have become part and parcel of the community would be included. “ Some non-indigenes were born and bred here; people like that are categorised as indigenes and they would be included, he or she would be different from anybody that just appeared from nowhere. “Anyway, there are processes, they would apply and bring letters from guarantors, who can be their traditional rulers, they would undergo some tests. So it is not just a thing that anybody can dabble into, they will pass through a lot of process. Again, the work is pensionable, so the recruitment would be thorough.” Bill may be passed this week -Ogun Speaker The Speaker of Ogun State House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo, has hinted that the Amotekun bill might be passed before the end of this month. The Speaker said this while addressing stakeholders at the public hearing on Monday. Oluomo, who spoke with our correspondent after the public hearing, said the bill would pass after necessary adjustments. He said, “We have hereby adjourned the meeting till Wednesday and we would make sure before the end of this month it becomes law by God’s grace.” IG’s fears unwarranted — YCE The Senior Elders’ Forum of the Yoruba Council of Elders has described as unwarranted the fear of the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, that the Western Nigeria Security Network, codenamed Amotekun, would be confrontational. Rather than being militant, the forum said the security outfit would be professional and law-abiding in its approach to the protection of lives and property of residents in Yoruba land. The former President of YCE, Dansaaki Agbede, spoke in Ibadan on Tuesday in reaction to the position of the IGP to the security outfit. He said, “Rather than the continued vilification of the progressive move by the agents of the Federal Government, the Yoruba people must be applauded for coming together to protect their lives and property as well as those of other residents in our land who engage in legitimate businesses and remain law abiding. “The unity that the proposed security outfit has brought about among our people is unprecedented in recent times as people of different political parties’ persuasion dropped their political garbs to embrace the initiative, a demonstration of the imperativeness of the idea. “Those in Abuja must appreciate the fact that while the people of the North-East are facing insurgency, we in Yoruba land are facing invasion and it would be fool hardy for us to stay aloof while being invaded. This was why every son and daughter of the Yoruba race rose and queued behind our governors on the project.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com