Sunday Aborisade,  Abuja THE security committee set up by the National Assembly management  has expressed  fears  about the suspicious people coming into the complex in recent times. A member of the committee told journalists on condition of anonymity on Wednesday that people  dressed in “funny attire” were entering the premises daily. The committee set up by the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori,  recommended “arms-bearing elite force be established for the National Assembly”. The  source said the report was submitted late last year. He said,  “Unfortunately, they (strange faces) claim to be some lawmakers’ constituents, thereby beating security checks and endangering life.” The  Director, Public Affairs of the National Assembly, Yahaya Dan-Zaria, confirmed the development to journalists on Wednesday. However, he said they  had   plans to  tackle the problem. Another  member of the panel said,  “We have this dangerous intelligence report that the National Assembly may be attacked by  terrorists. “We are not joking with it. Several steps are being taken but many stakeholders are not cooperating. “The manner  suspicious people  throng the National Assembly in recent times is worrisome. “The situation has overstretched the security architecture in the Assembly. “Many of them if confronted at the gates are quick to  claim being constituents of one lawmaker or another.” Meanwhile, the  12-man  committee headed by the sergeant-at-arms, Brig Gen Mohammed Danwalis (retd.) recommended that  banks and other business outfits whose operations were  neither incidental nor complementary to the functions of the National Assembly should be rationalised. It also recommended that the leadership of the Senate and the House of Representatives should prevail on legislators to submit themselves to security checks, especially a the point of entry into the National Assembly: It added that security clearance should  be the major requirements for disengaging legislative aides. Also, renewal of identity cards for legislative aides should be made annually It urged the management  to advise security chiefs to desist from bearing arms within the premises. It also recommended that n the long-run prayer houses within the White House should be relocated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 