Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has expressed its readiness to partner the Nigerian film industry, Nollywood, to enhance its performance in the entertainment sector and boost government revenue. The Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, said the Nigerian film industry had come a long way, adding that all well-meaning Nigerians, especially government at all levels, should support it for the betterment of the country. The Speaker made this known when he received a delegation of the Movie Directors Guild of Nigeria in his office in Abuja on Monday. A statement on Tuesday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, quoted Gbajabiamila as assuring the DGN delegation that he would talk to the Chairman of the House Committee on Tourism to get in touch with relevant agencies to allow movie producers to use their facilities whenever there was such a need. The Speaker also proposed an academy of performing arts where the government would be fully involved. “You should work out a template and liaise with the relevant committees. If you set up something like that, government will generate revenue. We have too many talents in Nigeria that should not waste away.” Earlier, the President of the DGN, Fred Amata, said they were in the Speaker’s office to solicit his support and presence during the guild’s forthcoming 20th anniversary, which would involve a novelty match with Gbajabiamila’s team. In his remark, the Chairman of the House Committee on Defence, Babajimi Benson, called on the movie producers to portray Nigeria’s security agencies in a good light at this time of security challenges. On his part, an actor and producer-turned-politician, Desmond Elliot, said there was a need for partnership between the House and the creative industry. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com