The litigation over the ownership of the Aluminum Smelter Company of Nigeria has gone on for over 16 years, how did it start? It all began in 1996 when I came to the country from the United States. At that time, there was a serious upheaval in the state due to the killing of Ken Saro-Wiwa. So I led a group of investigators to investigate the matter and appeal to the international community not to sanction Nigeria. During that time, we looked at the causes of all the issues and realised there was a lack of corporate and manufacturing entities and industries that would support employment of people, particularly the youth. ALSCON was one of those that were brought up. The company was built in the Niger Delta to help alleviate environmental pollution issues because it was supposed to harness the gas being flared and use it to support the production of aluminum. But the factory was not doing well, nothing was happening, hence I became fully aware of that and pleaded with government to ensure the entity was well completed and activated to serve the needs of the Niger Delta people. This was also contained in the recommendations that I made to the government then when Gen Sani Abacha was in power. So what happened afterwards? In 2000, I realised a civilian administration had been elected. The civilian administration at the time was trying to make the economy to work, and I had interest to see that the place worked because I am from the Niger Delta. I have lived in the United States and worked there. I was very much interested to see that the Niger Delta issues were being addressed using that company because of its capacity. Then I realised that the place was dormant, abandoned with people laid off, so I decided to find out what the issue was about. They told me it was listed to be privatised. So I said when they start asking for international investors, I will like to be involved. In 2003, they started calling for international investors, so I immediately deployed resources to mobilise investors in the US. I brought in some of the best hands, including those who manufactured the plant. Experts from several countries, including Germany, the United States and even Ghana, were brought together. The best team the country could ever think of putting together was assembled. This included people who actually developed the plant, including the chief technology officer of that plant. A lot of money was involved, but we succeeded in bringing everyone together, applied and won. However, after we won the bid, another company from Russia called UC Rusal, (then it was just Rusal), also bid but we won the bid, and thought that was the end of it. I received a lot of congratulatory messages from my Niger Delta people, who informed me that it was the first time a son of the Niger Delta would be winning a bid for one of the major national companies that the Federal Government privatised. They said other ethnic nationalities had been the ones benefiting from such schemes, so they were very happy with our struggles and success. Nonetheless, members of my group of American investors and I decided to proceed and implement the bid; we didn’t know there was already a plan to give it to the Russians. Did this happen in 2000? No, this was in 2004 and it was at that point we realised that they had already planned to give it to the Russians. So we questioned the government. Why will you publish an advert inviting investors to bid, when you had already decided to give it to one group? We however moved forward to complete our acquisition, but all of a sudden we discovered we had been disqualified, and this was still in 2004. What was the reason given for the disqualification? The basis for the disqualification was that we did not pay before signing the agreement, and we told them we were not supposed to pay before signing an agreement; nobody does that. We bid $410m; this is a plant that was built at the cost of $3.6bn then, so we won it at $410m in 2004. We met with the government before opening our bid and they agreed to the conditions of the bid, stating that if any investor should win the bid, those were the preconditions agreed to by all parties. One of them was that whichever company emerged as the winner would have to pay 10 per cent within 15 working days of executing the share purchase agreement. We had the agreement and I was asked to affirm it and we signed accordingly. But after we won and it turned out we weren’t the group expected to win, they said we should pay first before executing the SPA, but we said no, as we had all agreed in writing. It was signed by us and they agreed as well as on their letterhead which they sent to us all, and it carried all the terms and conditions. This is important because we had already told our bankers that immediately we won, we would require 15 working days to pay and the share purchase agreement was the instrument that would activate payment. So the trick they used to drag us back and cause confusion was to tell us we must pay before signing the SPA. We proceeded immediately to the lower court and by 2005, the court gave its judgment, ruling against us. So you lost the case? Yes, we lost the case, but proceeded immediately to the Court of Appeal around 2007. The appeal court also ruled against us and upheld the judgment of the lower court. But we didn’t give up. We felt it was a great injustice because the understanding was clear, so we proceeded to the Supreme Court in 2008. By 2012 the Supreme Court heard the case and unanimously ruled in our favour – five to nil. They said our case was meritorious to the extreme, contrary to what the other two lower courts had said. The Supreme Court issued specific orders in addition to our prayers asking them to immediately give us the share purchase agreement to execute, and the SPA must be mutually agreeable, and that we were to pay the 10 per cent as agreed in the SPA. The 10 per cent would come 15 working days after the execution of the SPA as agreed. The court also placed an injunction on the Federal Government that nobody should take that property or go to ALSCON by any means at all and purchase it other than us, except if we were unable to pay as agreed. This judgment was issued on July 6, 2012. So we commenced the enforcement of the judgment accordingly. As we progressed, the BPE immediately introduced another different element by giving us a contract that was totally different from what the Supreme Court ordered. This contract was unilateral and developed by them alone without our input, thereby ignoring the fact that the Supreme Court had ordered that they must provide us with a mutually agreed SPA. They asked us to immediately sign this agreement, which had been loaded with all sorts of things that were commercially unreasonable. For instance, the new agreement is asking us to pay about N4.2bn of employees’ pension funds. These were employees that had never worked for us as we had yet to take over the plant. They also did not guarantee us gas as it was stated in the agreement before we bid. We agreed that the new agreement was nothing other than a set-up, which they wanted us to reject so they could again disqualify us. We called their attention to the Supreme Court judgment and informed them that their failure to comply only meant we would go back to the Supreme Court. So in 2013, we went back to the Supreme Court and the court read the case all over again and instructed us to go and enforce the judgment, as the enforcement mechanism did not exist in the Supreme Court. So they asked our lawyers to know which of the lower courts we would like to go. Our lawyers agreed that we should proceed to the lower court. In that same year, the lower court reviewed the matter. They looked at the agreement we were given by BPE and the agreement the Supreme Court asked us to sign and the court upheld that of the Supreme Court, saying there was no cause for comparison as the case was clear, and we got judgment to go ahead and execute that agreement, but the BPE immediately went on to appeal the judgment. They delayed the case for almost four years. They refused to file their papers; they pulled every possible stunt in the book to frustrate us until 2016/17 or so. How did you go past this? Well, we couldn’t go past it without asking them to come before the law. So we told them that by disagreeing to attach these exhibits, they were not giving us a share purchase agreement, therefore they were in contempt of the Supreme Court order because they had been ordered by the court to give us the SPA and what they were giving us was not the SPA. We then proceeded to serve them Form 48 which was a warning and still they did not care, so we went ahead to serve them Form 49, which was a request that the court should commit them to jail for disobedience and the court granted our prayers. On December 17, 2019, the court issued a judgment stating that those exhibits were an integral part of the agreement and that if the Director General of the BPE continued to prolong the matter and frustrate the enforcement of the Supreme Court judgment, the court would have to set an example to deter future occurrence and the DG was sentenced to 30 days in jail until he complied by giving us all the exhibits. So did you think the BPE was simply trying to frustrate your group? Exactly! They want to frustrate us because they have a plan to steal that asset from us. It is the third largest infrastructural asset in the country, and it is located between Akwa-Ibom and Rivers. What do you think the Nigerian economy is losing as a result of this lingering controversy? The country is losing quite a lot. As this plant continues to be mired in controversy without working, millions of foreign exchange that ought to come into the country through sales of aluminum will not come. The consumption capacity for aluminum in Nigeria is about 20 per cent of the plant’s installed capacity, while the remaining 80 per cent is to be exported abroad. So, you bring in hard currency, and the foreign reserve of the country increases and stabilises. But with what we have now, we’ll continue to import and that sadly takes its toll on other sectors of the national economy, and our consumption of aluminum related product becomes more expensive for the consumer because they aren’t produced here.  So all these factors frustrate the economy, and ensure that the growth and development of our economy are restricted by these constraints. So what do you think all these say about the justice system in Nigeria and the rule of law? The justice system is simply poor. If you don’t have the resources to fight aggressively with good lawyers, you cannot move your case from the lower court to the apex court and get judgment, especially as that is where you will get judgment in most cases, just like ours. The apex court knows that it is an institution that does not have the privilege to give a wrong judgment, as that will last forever. What do you want, especially from the executive arm of government? Our prayers are simple. BPE should hand over the 19 exhibits contained in the share purchase agreement, which the Supreme Court ordered in its wisdom since 2012 to be handed to us so that we can sign off on it accordingly and pay the requisite 10 per cent within 14 working days, from the date of signing that agreement and the balance in 90 days as agreed. What is difficult in doing this? One would think that this man is joking.  One could think that this is all a joke, as government normally would quickly grant this kind of prayers in order to bring in this kind of money. But I tell you and all Nigerians that in Nigeria today, the Supreme Court of Nigeria gave a judgment in our favour directing that the mutually agreed SPA be handed over to our group, and the document in question is being toyed with by an agency of the Federal Government in order to frustrate that enterprise simply because of personal interest. We went back and looked at ALSCON, which we bought in 2004, and this is now 2020. In 2012 when the Supreme Court gave its judgment, the company was valued at N3.6bn, but today they have run it down to less than N100m.  A company that had 800 employees, they ran it down to less than 20 employees. A company managed by Nigerians and with 36 per cent production output capacity when we bought it, now possesses zero production capacity. A company that had zero liability when we bought it in 2004 now has a liability of US$163m. Now, all these are the issues frightening these people, as they very well know that the moment we take over the company, all these shenanigans will be exposed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   