Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Federal Civil Service Commission has shortlisted 440 senior civil servants seeking to be promoted to the positions of directors, Saturday PUNCH has learnt. Those concerned are those on Salary Grade 16 seeking to be promoted to SGL 17. In the civil service, officers between SGL 15 and 17 belong to the directorate level. While those on SGL 15 are assistant directors, those on SGL 16 are deputy directors and those on SGL 17 are directors. The process for the promotion started last year with the accreditation of candidates held from December 9 to 14, 2019. The 440 successful officers, cutting across ministries, departments and agencies, were said to have passed the written examinations earlier conducted by the FCSC. Our correspondent, on Friday, cited a copy of the circular announcing the result of the examination and inviting the 440 successful candidates for the oral interview slated for between March 9 and 13 in Abuja. The circular marked FC.6243/Gov/2019/Vol. I/301 and dated February 27, 2020, was signed by the commission’s chairman, Dr Tukur Ingawa. “Sequel to the conduct of written examinations by the FCSC in respect of the 2019 directorate level promotion exercise, the commission hereby invites successful officers on SGL 16 seeking promotion to the post of director, SGL 17, for oral interview,” Ingawa wrote. The chairman asked the candidates to assemble at the Eagle Square, Abuja on the days allocated to the MDAs for onward movement to the venue of the exercise. A breakdown of the list attached to the circular shows that the Ministry of Education has the highest number of officials shortlisted for the oral interview with 150 candidates. The ministry is followed by the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation with 86 candidates and Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation with 33 candidates. Ministry of Defence has 28; Ministry of Health, 23; Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation, 16; Ministry of Environment, 15; Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 14; Ministry of Works and Housing, 14; Ministry of Justice, 11; and Ministry of Information and Culture, 11. Others are Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, eight; Bureau of Public Procurement, seven; Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, six; Ministry of Labour and Employment, five; and State House, four. Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, Ministry of Police Affairs, Ministry of Youths and Sports and the Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service have two candidates each while the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation has only one candidate. The circular was addressed to the Chief of Staff to the President; his deputy; the SGF; the HOCSF; all permanent secretaries; Auditor-General of the Federation; Accountant-General of the Federation; Surveyor-General of the Federation and all heads of extra-ministerial departments. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 