Kene Umeokafor, the CEO of RedTown Digital, speaks with TOMI MARK-ADEWUNMI, about his career What is your job description? I manage the day-to-day running of the business. As the Chief Executive Officer of the company, I ensure that everything runs swiftly. What services does your company render? Our operations are divided into content, strategy and technology. We help companies get the right attention they need. Right now, people and organisations are looking for various ways to get attention. So, we execute different campaigns and strategies, using technology to help them get the right kind of attention. We are also into content production, TV commercials, media planning, social media buying and data analysis. We have created interactive games for some of our clients that wanted to use it to engage their audiences. What inspired you to start the company? I wanted to do something different. While I was in school, people usually talked about the old ways of marketing. Also, I noticed the industry was filled with people doing almost the same thing. But, I had a different strategy. We then decided to go ahead when we got amazing feedbacks from the projects we did while we were in school. What kind of assistance did you get when you came up with the idea? There was virtually none; we didn’t have any kind of funding. Most of the assistance I got came in the form of connections I had– we were being introduced to people. Because of our work, we were valuable. We used to be like middle men but eventually, we grew. We were able to get to where we are through the projects we undertook. Were you ever discouraged at any point? Yes. Being discouraged is normal. However, we never stopped. Entrepreneurship, everywhere in the world, is a roller coaster. Today, we could feel like we are going to take over the world and the next week, we are down and don’t seem to know what is happening again. What makes your company different from other businesses like it? It has to do with our creative theory. Firstly, we are coming from a new perspective. We are not old but young and dynamic and we are well driven with our structure. When a new technology comes up and it has the potential of changing the landscape, we are definitely going to jump on it. We would be the first to do an analysis of it. Also, because I came from a filmmaking background, we have a storytelling approach to selling technology. What are some of the challenges you face on the job? Because we are on our own, some clients don’t know our value and they tend to under-price us at first. Also, the payment system in Nigeria could be defaulting, so one can’t really plan well. What motivates you to work? I believe that from the onset, I have been given a direction. I don’t want to sound too spiritual but I know that we have limited time here and one day, we would all die, so I want to make as much change as I can in the world in such an amazing way with all the talents I possess. Also, some young people depend on me for leadership. I want to make sure that by the end of the day, things work out and we can look back and be glad that we did what we had to do. What aspect of your job thrills you the most? There is the crazy and also the wearisome part of it. However, the excitement of coming to work, having to figure out things and solve problems are parts of the thrill. Also, coming up with solutions for clients is a good thing. I also like the fact that people respect us because we see things differently from others. What is your educational background? I studied Electrical Electronics at Covenant University. On the day of my graduation, I was already working on a project. By the time I got into school, I had started filmmaking and after my first year, I knew the course wasn’t what I wanted but I had to finish school for the sake of my parents and for the sake of having a bachelor’s degree. What is your definition of success? For me, success is control. Success is getting to the point where I have control over my personal life, spiritual life, mental health, emotional health and financial state. I feel like success is multi-dimensional. I probably won’t consider myself a successful person if I have a lot of work and it is giving me mental health issues. Success is when I am in control of myself and everything that concerns me and my life. What are your aspirations? My dream is to build a creative campus. The vision I have for my company is to build a city– a creative campus where African youths can engage in technology to bring out creative contents. I imagine a small city where people can come to create and that is what I am working towards. What words of encouragement do you have for youths? Things don’t always make sense at the beginning. However, it is when you look back that you would be amazed. Don’t undervalue yourself. I am a very introverted person but my work is more extroverted. Let your work speak, so that people can see that you have value. Also, don’t be caught up on social media. A lot of the things we see online are made up; life is not always like that. Make sure you are good at whatever you do and are not a local champion. Ensure that your work has standards. Give value first and don’t think about what you will get in return. What are your hobbies? I like work and I’m learning how to play the piano by the side. I am very passionate about music, especially orchestra and I also like watching movies and being on social media. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com