Nike Popoola AXA Mansard Investments, a multi-expert asset manager in Nigeria, has partnered with Jumia’s all-in-one lifestyle App, Jumia One to bring AXA Mansard’s Money Market Fund closer to the public and make it easier to invest. A statement by AXA Mansard, said this was in order to continue to provide top-notch savings and investment solutions. In addition to AXA Mansard’s MyAXA app, AXA Mansard’s Money Market Fund was now accessible through the Jumia One app, it added. This means that new and existing clients can now either sign up or make payments to the money market fund on the Jumia One app. The Head of Solutions, AXA Mansard Investments, Renah Osiemi, said, “AXA remains committed to empowering people to live better lives. We are therefore very excited about this partnership with Jumia One which will make transactions easier and money market fund more accessible to a wider number of people.” Osiemi added, “AXA Mansard Investments Limited has tasked itself with seeking innovative ways to create value for its customers. One key thrust of our strategy is to create a delightful client experience that enables people better manage their finances. Mansard, this is the reason we are partnering with Jumia One to ensure we keep making transacting easy and seamless.” Also speaking on the partnership, Head of Jumia One, Tunde Akinnuwa, said the partnership aimed at bringing every online service to one place for easier, more secure and affordable transactions. He said, “ Therefore, we have chosen to work with an organisation whose mission aligns with ours. “AXA Mansard has proved over the years that they remain resolute in providing excellent client experience and redefining the way investment solutions are delivered.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   