’Femi Asu Bhojsons Powerhub, a subsidiary of the Bhojsons Group, says it has introduced a new power backup solution into the Nigerian market in a bid to improve energy efficiency. The company said in a statement that the Amaze Power Backup solution was launched during an event in Lagos. The Group Managing Director, Bhojsons Group Plc, Mr Vishant Dalamal, described the Amaze inverters and batteries as having a pedigree of over 30 years of manufacturing excellence and category experience. According to him, the Amaze brand offers customers quality power solutions using cutting-edge technology in a complete package that guarantees maximum performance. He said, “Amaze power products are designed for young achievers who demand more in their lives. Amaze delivers more performance, more reliability, more attractive designs with consistent power, and the assurance of quality of global manufacturing standards and 24/7 after-sales service across Nigeria. “The brand also has one of the most interesting aesthetic designs from France with a smooth, sophisticated architecture and refined edges.” Dalamal thanked the dealers for their immense support and contributions, which he said had seen the company grow over the years despite the difficult operating environment and challenges of the Nigerian economy. “We are really excited to see and celebrate you, our esteemed business partners, for your support in growing our business to where it is today. Without you all, it won’t have been possible to get to where we are,” he added. The Business Unit Head, Bhojsons Powerhub, Mr Rajneesh Gupta, said the power backup products were designed to reduce electrical losses, thereby improving power savings and efficiency. He said, “Customers in Nigeria truly deserve a comforting experience. With Amaze, a lot of money will be saved on diesel and petrol, generator repairs and other agonies that often come with the regular power outage experienced in Nigeria. The Amaze brand is more resilient, performs much better and delivers more durability.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   