Ada Wodu, Calabar Eight suspects have been arrested in Calabar by the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps for allegedly engaging in illegal activities. Four of the suspects were nabbed for illegal registration of candidates for the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board examination and extorting money from their victims. The corps also paraded four other suspects for vandalising transformer cables belonging to the Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company. Commandant of the NSCDC in Cross River, Mr Danjuma Elisha, who paraded the suspects, said they were arrested between January 23 and 24 in Calabar. He said that following the irregularities trailing the registration and complaints by candidates, the NSCDC was contacted to restore sanity in the registration process. Elisha also said investigation revealed that the suspects were selling e-pin for N5, 000 to candidates as against the N4, 000 stipulated by JAMB. He added, “JAMB is not happy with the development and we were asked to swing into action and restore sanity. The Cross River coordinator of JAMB wrote to us and pointed out some areas where we can operate. “We went into action and arrested one suspect at the former JAMB office at 100 Marian Road in Calabar. His arrest led to the arrest of others. “We discovered that these suspects were collecting above the stipulated amount recognised by JAMB and sadly, there were not authorised to do any JAMB business. “The suspects were also involved in fake racketeering of regularisation of admission for candidates and collecting N12, 000 instead of N10, 000. “The suspects collected over N15, 000 from one of the candidates who couldn’t even gain admission. All these made the JAMB coordinator to raise the alarm which led to their arrest.” He added that a ladder, hand gloves and other items were recovered from the suspects who vandalised cables belonging to the PHEDC. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com