John Ameh and Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja The Federal Government said on Wednesday that it had acquired the reagents for testing samples of the deadly Coronavirus locally in Nigeria. It also stated that there was yet to be any case of the disease in Nigeria. It added that no case had been reported in the whole of Africa as of Wednesday. The Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, who gave the update after the Federal Executive Council meeting, disclosed that the reagents arrived in the country eight days ago. Until eight days ago, there were no reagents locally. The minister said he briefed the FEC on the update, adding that three test centres in Lagos, Abuja and Irrua had been activated for successful testing of samples in Nigeria. Wednesday’s meeting was presided over by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo in the absence of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). On why Nigeria had yet to record a case, he responded, “So far, maybe we have been lucky that no persons carrying the virus have entered Nigeria. “The Chinese government too has been helping in making sure that persons carrying the virus do not travel out of China to other countries.” The minister reassured Nigerians that the country was ready for any emergencies and had long activated all disease control points at the entry points into Nigeria. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government has dismissed the rumoured suspicion of cases of the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-2019) in Gowon Estate in Alimosho Local Government Area of the state. The Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, dismissed the rumour making the rounds on social media that Chinese people who recently returned from Wuhan, China and residing in Osoba Close of Gowon Estate were having severe symptoms of Coronavirus disease and treating the symptoms themselves. He noted that there was no truth in the report. Abayomi, while giving an update on the investigation carried out by the ministry through its surveillance team, declared that there was no suspected or confirmed case of Coronavirus in Lagos State. The commissioner explained that the state surveillance team and other relevant stakeholders in Alimosho visited the alleged scene of the suspected case  and discovered that there were no Chinese nationals residing or carrying on business in and around any of the streets of the communities visited. Said he, “In a bid to further investigate the rumour, the surveillance team of Lagos State Ministry of Health and the Alimosho community stakeholders were in Gowon Estate on February, 9, 2019, the alleged scene of the suspected cases.” “The team interrogated residents living in and around Osoba Street in Alaguntan Ward, Segun Majekodunmi Street and other randomly selected houses in Alimosho, but there were no Chinese nationals residing or carrying on business in and around any of the streets and communities visited.” Abayomi added that the team also interrogated the Chairman of Gemade Estate who was known to have affiliations with Chinese expatriates but discovered that the six Chinese expatriates who had worked in his factory at Igbesa, Agbara, Ogun State had returned to China since 2019 when their work permit expired. In another development, the World Health Organisation said it had activated a blueprint and working with other global health partners to fast track the process of developing vaccine for coronavirus. Speaking during a sensitisation programme on the virus at the WHO office in Abuja, WHO Technical Officer, Health Emergency Programme, Dhamari Naidoo, said the global health agency was ready to assist Nigeria with adequate equipment at its isolation centres. She said, “At the global level, we have activated the WHO blueprint and we are working with a number of partners to fast track the development of therapeutic diagnostics and vaccine. There is already a global platform for that collaboration to happen. “In term of facilities available for isolation and patient care, we are currently performing assessment to identify which are the most appropriate facilities to work with in Nigeria and what resources they need. We will have that information in the coming weeks.” Naidoo added that the international community had supported the fight against the virus with information and data sharing, noting that China had also been open with data sharing. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com