Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Blessing, the wife of a police corporal, Sunday Idoko, who was shot dead by gunmen while escorting election results from Ipokia town to the Ilaro collation centre in Ogun State,  on Thursday begged the Independent National Electoral Commission and the Nigeria Police Force for job. The late police corporal was reportedly shot dead by some suspected hoodlums at Eredo in the Yewa South Local Government Area during the 2019 presidential election in the state. The corporal’s widow while speaking with newsmen on Thursday shortly after INEC presented her with a cheque, said the monetary compensation was not enough for her loss. The woman, who was accompanied by family members including her four-year-old son, lamented that she was facing economic challenges that the money presented to her could not solve. She maintained that getting a job would be a better option that would help her take very good care of herself and her son. While appreciating INEC’s kind gesture, Mrs Idoko noted that her husband would do more than what was presented to her if he were alive. She said, “This compensation is not enough because of the economic challenges I am facing. Life is not easy, two hands are better than one. Things are too difficult. Every day and night, I find it difficult to get solution to how I will train this little child. How will I stand? It is not easy.” When asked what she would prefer from the police and INEC, the widow said, “I’ll be happy if they can stand by me by offering me a job.” Meanwhile, the Ogun State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. Abdulganiyu Raji, said the compensation was in fulfilment of the insurance policy of the electoral body for ad hoc staff and other security personnel attached to it. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 