Our Correspondents ENGLAND Kelechi Iheanacho, Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester) Kelechi Iheanacho was an unused substitute in Leicester City’s goalless draw at Wolves’ Molineux Stadium on Friday. His compatriot Wilfred Ndidi was not listed for the game as he continues to recuperate from a knee injury. The midfielder is expected to be back against Manchester City on Saturday at the King Power Stadium. Iheanacho has played nine times for the Foxes this season, scoring three goals and creating four assists while Ndidi has scored twice with an assist in 21 appearances. Leon Balogun (Wigan) Leon Balogun made his first start in 14 months for Wigan Athletic in their 2-2 draw away at Cardiff City on Saturday in the English Championship. The game was Balogun’s second outing and first start for the Latics since making a loan move from English Premier League side Brighton in January. Semi Ajayi (West Brom), Sammy Ameobi (Nottingham Forest) Semi Ajayi played all 90 minutes in West Brom’s 2-2 home draw against Nottingham Forest on Saturday. The Nigeria international has scored five goals in 31 league games this season for the Baggies. Sammy Ameobi played 70 minutes for Forest. He was replaced by Alfa Semedo. Eberechi Eze, Bright Osayi-Samuel (QPR) Eberechi Eze and Bright Osayi-Samuel were both on the score sheet in Queens Park Rangers’ 4-2 comeback win against Stoke City on Saturday in an English Championship game. Eze scored in the 38th minute to reduce the deficit after Stoke had gone two goals up after 31 minutes, while Osayi-Samuel put the R’s in front for the first time in the encounter after 71st minute. Both players were on for the entire duration of the game. Osayi-Samuel was booked in the 24th minute for a foul. Eze has scored 11 goals in 33 appearances while Osayi-Samuel has scored six goals in 25 appearances. Tosin Adarabioyo (Blackburn Rovers) Tosin Adarabioyo scored his second goal of the season for Blackburn Rovers, who beat Charlton Athletic 2-0 on Saturday in the Championship. The defender of Nigerian descent scored his team’s second goal in the 37th minute after John Buckley had put the visitors in front in the 29th minute of the encounter. Adarabioyo is currently on loan from Manchester City and he has featured 23 times for Rovers this season. Ovie Ejaria (Reading) Ovie Ejaria played 86 minutes in Reading’s 3-0 win at Sheffield Wednesday on Saturday. Ejaria provided an assist for Yakoi Meite, who gave the visitors the lead in the 21st minute of the encounter. The player of Nigerian descent was cautioned in the 67th minute. The 22-year-old has scored three goals while providing four assists in 29 appearances. He was replaced by Ayub Masika. SPAIN Oghenekaro Etebo (Getafe) Oghenekaro Etebo played 67 minutes in Getafe’s 2-1 loss to Barcelona in the Spanish La Liga on Sunday. The midfielder has featured three times for the Spanish side since joining on loan from Stoke City in January. He was replaced by Amath Ndiaye. Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal) Samuel Chukwueze played for 14 minutes in Villarreal’s 2-1 win against Levante on Saturday in La Liga. The exciting winger replaced Paco Alcacer in the 76th minute of the encounter. The Nigerian has scored three goals and created three assists for the Yellow Submarines this season in 23 appearances. Ramon Azeez (Granada) Ramon Azeez was an unused substitute in Granada’s 2-1 win over Real Valladolid on Saturday in the Spanish La Liga.  Azeez has scored twice for the Nazaries in 16 league games this season. Kenneth Omeruo, Chidozie Awaziem (Leganes) Chidozie Awaziem was handed his seventh LaLiga start of the season in Leganes goalless draw at home to Real Betis. His compatriot, Kenneth Omeruo, who was missing in action due to a thigh strain, has featured 17 times this season, scoring once. GERMANY Anthony Ujah (Union Berlin) Anthony Ujah was an unused substitute in Union Berlin’s 3-2 home loss to Bayer Leverkusen in the German Bundesliga on Saturday. He has scored two goals in 16 appearances for the Bundesliga outfit. Jamilu Collins (Paderborn) Jamilu Collins’ own goal proved costly for Bundesliga strugglers Paderborn on Saturday. The Nigerian turned the ball inside his own net in the 67th minute to hand visitors Hertha Berlin the maximum points in a 2-1 win. Collins was shown a yellow card in the 73rd minute as Paderborn remain rooted in the bottom of the league. FRANCE Josh Maja, Samuel Kalu (Bordeaux) Josh Maja played nine minutes in Bordeaux’s 2-2 home draw against Dijon in the French Ligue 1 on Saturday. The forward replaced goal-scorer Jimmy Briand in the 81st minute. Maja’s countryman Samuel Kalu was not listed for the encounter. Maja has scored five goals in 17 appearances, including two assists. Moses Simon (Nantes) Moses Simon played all 90 minutes as 10-man Nantes held Metz to a goalless draw on Saturday. Simon has scored five Ligue 1 goals in 22 appearances while providing five assists. BELGIUM Emmanuel Dennis, David Okereke (Club Brugge) Emmanuel Dennis featured for 18 minutes in Club Brugge’s 2-1 win against Waasland Beveren to consolidate their position at the top of the league table. The Super Eagles forward was replaced by Eduard Sobol in the 72nd minute. His countryman David Okereke was an unused substitute in the game. Paul Onuachu (Genk) Super Eagles lanky striker, Paul Onuachu, failed to add to his nine-goal tally after firing blanks in Genk’s 3-1 home loss to Standard Liege. Onuachu, who scored his first league goal in 2020 last Thursday in a hard-fought 1-1 draw away at Royal Antwerp, featured for the entire duration of the game. TURKEY Mikel Obi, Anthony Nwakaeme (Trabzonspor) Former Super Eagles captain Mikel Obi was on for the entire duration for Trabzonspor, who beat title rivals Sivasspor 2-1 in the Turkish Super Lig on Sunday. The game was Mikel’s 16th appearance for Trabzonspor this season. Mikel’s Nigerian counterpart Anthony Nwakaeme, who started the game was replaced in the 35th minute with a suspected injury. With the win, Trabzonspor returns to the top of the Turkish league table with 44 points from 23 games, with a game in hand. Azubuike Okechukwu (Istanbul Basaksehir) Azubuike Okechukwu played 18 minutes in Istanbul Basaksehir’s 1-0 win against Besiktas on Friday. The midfielder came on for Eljero Elia in the 72nd minute. Henry Onyekuru (Galatasaray) Forward Onyekuru played all 90 minutes has Galatasaray beat Yeni Malalyaspor 1-0 in the Turkish Super Lig on Sunday. It was his first start in three appearances on his return to the Turkish giants. He had earlier played roles in Galatasaray’s wins over Kayserispor and Kasimpasa, coming on from the bench. NETHERLANDS Chidera Ejuke (Heerenveen) Chidera Ejuke scored his 12th goal of the season for SC Heerenveen in their 4-2 loss at Vitesse Arnhem. Ejuke hit target in the 34th minute to draw his team level at 2-2. It was his eighth goal in the league; he has also scored four goals in the cup competition. Heerenveen are 10th on the table with 29 points from 23 matches. Cyril Dessers (Heracles) Cyril Dessers fired blanks in Heracles 1-0 loss at VVV-Venlo in the Eredivisie on Saturday. The striker, who has netted 14 times in 23 Eredivisie appearances for the club, was on for the entire duration of the game. SWITZERLAND Sebastian Osigwe (SC Kriens) Sebastian Osigwe kept a clean sheet in SC Kriens’ 1-0 win at Grasshoppers in the Swiss Challenge League on Friday.  Osigwe has kept eight clean sheets in 19 appearances. Italy Simy Nwankwo (Crotone) Simy Nwankwo played all 90 minutes in Crotone’s 3-2 loss to Juve Stanbia in the Italian Serie B on Saturday. The Nigeria international had an assist in his team’s first goal. The striker has scored 10 goals, providing three assists in 23 league appearances. William Troost-Ekong (Udinese) William Troost-Ekong featured for struggling Udinese, who were held 0-0 at home by Hellas Verona, in Serie A on Sunday. The game was Troost-Ekong’s 21st Serie A appearance for Udinese in the current league campaign. Following Sunday’s draw, Udinese remain 15th in the Serie A log with 26 points and are four points above the relegation zone. By:  Johnny Edward and Kelvin Ekerete Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   