Rasheed Bisiriyu Many commercial vehicle operators on Lagos-Ibadan routes may be out of business when the new standard gauge rail line commences full operation unless they upgrade their standard in terms of passengers’ comfort. This has nothing to do with the higher speed of about 150km/hour the new train could travel; it has everything to do with the luxury of the new coaches and the cozy environment. A trip from Iju Railway Station in Lagos to Ibadan, Oyo State, undertaken last Saturday by some journalists including our correspondent revealed some of the high-quality facilities inside the new train coach. The air-conditioned executive coach made available for the train ride by the contractor, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation, provided a free-sitting arrangement with a cozy interior modelled after a first-class or business-class section of an airplane. There are two conference rooms in the coach. Each of them has an executive oval table and executive chairs built with a shiny finish. People could seat for long hours holding meeting in any of the rooms oblivious of the happenings outside the moving train, thanks to the well-padded and noise-insulated interior. Everyone seated round the table has access to an individual charging point for their mobile telephones and other handy eletronic gadgets. In the coach proper, the seats are arranged in two rows, each of them has adequate space with sufficient legroom and an unattached table. With a maximum seat pitch (the distance between the seats), passengers can decide to sit up or recline/stretch out without making any form of adjustment to their seats. This is akin to what is found in the executive luxury bus coach and the business-class section of an aircraft. There is also a wide area separating the two rows of seats for people to move freely in both directions to/from the toilet, restuarant or any other place within the coach. No one will be required to wait for the other. No one also needs to be told that standing on this train’s coach is not allowed. Notwithstanding the wide space provided for the walkway, there is nothing for anyone standing to hold. With this arrangement, it will be suicidal for people to stand on this fast train. The coach has two television sets where compact discs of musicals, movies and other forms of entertainment could be played for the relaxation of the passengers. There are also TV sets in two areas that appear to be the sleeper section of the train coach. Here, there is an exquisite arrangement of some sofas on both sides of the coach. It is obviously a setting for either a business/intimate discussion among friends or a place to have a more soothing sleep than in the main coach sitting area. According to the Project Manager of the CCECC, Xia Lijun, who was also part of the special train ride, the coaches have security devices such as closed-circuit televisions that could monitor the activities of people within and outside the train, with the aid of monitors installed inside the security cubicle. There are also security personnel on board. The windows are also said to have tinted glass and covered with window blinds such that people outside cannot see passengers seated inside the train; they (passengers) could however see people outside. There is a restaurant that takes care of the passengers meals and drinks while on board. Restrooms are found in many places within the train; at the corner of the main coach; each of the conference rooms, among others. The facilities and their operation in the lavatories are basically the same with what is obtainable in the aircraft. People using the toilets will readily find a neatly arranged pressurised cabin and a washing-hand basin, among others. During the ride, the train was said to be moving at about 80km/h to enable the travellers to have a panoramic view of people, towns and villages and other scenic things along the route. There was a stopover at Abeokuta Railway Station, still under construction, for a tour of the massive area and uniqueness of the design. This trip is part of the daily free ride on the new train, which started on December 1 last year. It is a four-month trial run expected to end in March this year. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who announced this via his official Twitter handle, ahead of the end of the year and new year movements, had said, “Our free rides on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line will begin today and run through March, 2020. “Commuters on that route can take advantage of it and save transportation during the festive period and beyond. Let’s ride on the #NextLevel. Take-off point is Iju.” Ahead of the start of commercial operation on the new Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line, 20 new coaches have arrived in Nigeria, 10 of which will be deployed along the route. The remaining 10 new coaches would be sent to the Abuja-Kaduna standard gauge rail line to ease the congestion being experienced on the route, it was learnt. The 20 coaches were inspected by the minister during one of his monthly assessments of work on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line. Government had extended the new rail line project to the Lagos port as part of measures to ease the congestion on the Apapa port roads. An upsurge in the number of passengers on the 186.5km Abuja-Kaduna train service following frequent cases of kidnapping along the Abuja-Kaduna road had prompted the government to place an order for the importation of 30 coaches and 300 wagons. Some of the coaches are meant for the new Lagos-Ibadan rail line. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 