Afeez Hanafi and Peter Dada John Ogunbodede clocked up 70 five years ago amid pomp and circumstance. The day was a reflection on seven decades of sound health and fulfillment. His son, Oluwafemi, had just become a medical doctor at the time and secured job at the Ondo Town General Hospital. Ogunbodede hoped for a restful future. But on June 29, 2015, tragedy struck along Ondo-Ore Road, cutting short Oluwafemi’s promising life and his father’s unflinching hope. The 32-year-old doctor was travelling in his car with a friend, Abdulrasaq Olukoju, to resume at his new workplace in Okitipupa General Hospital when a speeding taxi cab rammed into his vehicle. Olukoju also died in the crash. The driver, one Taiwo Suberu, was arrested and charged to a Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ore with reckless driving. “That you, Taiwo Suberu, on June 29, 2015 at about 9.45am, along Ondo/Ore highway at Omifon, Ore, in the Ore Magisterial District, being a driver in charge of one Golf car with registration no NND 506 XA, did drive same recklessly and dangerously without having regard to all circumstances of the case, including the nature, condition, and use of the highway and to the amount of traffic thus causing the death of two doctors,” the charge filed by the state’s Ministry of Justice read in part. Since the demise of his son, life has taken a tough toll on Ogunbodede, more so as justice in the case is being delayed. “The government lawyer and police prosecutor are using delay tactics in the matter and the driver has stopped coming to court,” said Ogunbode, who is now bedridden at his residence in Mile 2, Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos. “He graduated from Obafemi Owolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State,” the bereaved father stated as he began to share the harrowing experience with our correspondent. “He was a source of joy in the family, because I thought I had got a new attribute as a doctor’s father.” He said he encouraged Oluwafemi to take up a medical job in their hometown in Okitipupa to contribute his own quota to the development of the state. “I don’t know I was sending my son to his death,” he intoned, his voice laden with anguish. He went on, “I regret it sending him there. I am pained. On the day of the crash, I was told that before help could come their way, my son had died. His friend who sustained injuries died two days later at the hospital where he was rushed to. “After the crash, policemen were invited to the scene. They documented everything and the cab operator was arrested and charged with reckless driving. The Ondo State Chapter of medical association through the state government pursued the case well during the administration of former Governor Olusegun Mimiko.” Distraught Ogunmodede stated that he got a lawyer when the association couldn’t pursue the case any longer, adding that the matter was going on smoothly until the defendant stopped coming to court. He also claimed that Suberu’s car, which was recovered as an exhibit, had been returned to him. The septuagenarian told Sunday PUNCH that the magistrates’ court once expressed disappointment over continued delay of the trial. “When I could no longer bear it, I contacted the then Attorney General of Ondo State, One Mr Jegede, to register my displeasure about the case. The attorney general said he was not aware of the new development. One lawyer, Mr Bamishile, was assigned to me to continue with the matter. After the case dragged for one and a half years, a new government was inaugurated.” He said since the administration of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu came on board, he had travelled to Ondo State several times on the case without any headway. “I want justice for my son. People are blaming me for sending him to Ondo State to work, but I have accepted my fate. I think of his death on a daily basis. It took two years after his death before the state government paid his four months’ salary,” he added. Meanwhile, the court on Thursday revoked Suberu’s bail condition for disobeying the court order on his bail conditions and sent him back to prison custody. The presiding magistrate, Mrs. A.B.T. Oyedele, gave the order following the defendant’s refusal to bring the vehicle to court. Oyedele then adjourned the case to February 27, 2020 for the continuation of trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com