Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, on Wednesday blamed judges, lawyers and litigants for the slow pace of  justice administration. Tanko also blamed  the development for overcrowded correctional centres. He spoke at the ‘Colloquium of appellate Justices on the Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015 and anti-graft laws’. The CJN was represented by a Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Sylvester Ngwuta, at the Centre for Socio-Legal Studies in collaboration with the Court of Appeal and the National Judicial Council. He said, “Delay in the dispensation of justice remains a major challenge due to the failure by various actors, including some judges, lawyers, law enforcement agencies, litigants and witnesses to appreciate or play their roles in the speedy dispensation of justice. “We must all address the problem of delay headlong and find creative solutions thereto. “There is also the challenge of the huge backlog of cases and appeals awaiting attention. “The National Judicial Council has put in place measures to tackle this problem. We urge all stakeholders of the justice system to be more creative and proactive in addressing these challenges.” He expressed hope that through the discussions at the event, judges  “will be reminded of the leading decisions of our courts on the Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015 and the anti-graft laws”. The  Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, described the judiciary as “a crucial partner of anti-corruption agencies in the fight against corruption”. Owasanoye, who was represented by a former Justice of the Court of Appeal, Justice Adamu Bello, said “the prosecution of corruption cases by anti-corruption agencies have benefited tremendously since the passage of ACJA”. He called for greater enforcement of the provisions of the law, particularly Section 396(6) of the law empowering  judges to award costs against lawyers filing frivolous applications. The ICPC chief added, “There is also a need to interrogate the current system of designation of courts to adjudicate on corruption cases. Is it working as it should or should we not consider the other potions of such as specialised courts to handle corruption cases?” He also called for the interrogation of “the merits and demerits of the implementation  of section 270 of ACJA on plea bargaining and how it impacts the work of anticorruption agencies and public  perception of justice delivery”. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com