Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Hundreds of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria’s workers on Monday took over the collection of tolls at the entrance of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. This followed disagreement with the managers of the facility, Integrated Intelligent Imaging West Africa Limited otherwise known as I-CUBE. The workers alleged that the company’s contract with FAAN had expired over a year ago. The workers who took control of the access gate as early as 7am were led by leaders of aviation unions. The workers took charge of ticketing points from I-CUBE workers using personnel from FAAN’s commercial department. The Secretary General, Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals, Abdulrasaq Saidu, told journalists that the management of the access gate was the sole responsibility of FAAN’s commercial department. Saidu alleged that the system had been messed up by politicians through illegal concession of revenue points at the airports. According to him, the concession of the access gate without a review of the contract for more than five years is fraudulent. He stated that the traffic of the route had greatly increased since the last contract was carried out, adding that there was a need for the review of the contract. “Some individuals at FAAN and the aviation ministry have compromised their positions on  the access gate and the Federal Government is losing revenue from there,” Saidu said. He stated that after a series of meetings with the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, and the management of FAAN at different occasions, it was made known to them that workers were going to take over the access gate and run it through the agency’s commercial department to improve revenue generation. The Deputy National President, Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigerian, Sarah Rimdams, said the move was for workers to recover their revenue points to government as the contract with I-CUBE expired last February. Rimdams said the company had been remitting N68m monthly but there was a need for an upward review of the contract. An Executive Director of I-CUBE, Mr Toluwaleke Abajingin, said the takeover came as a surprise to the company, adding that the case was in court. Abajingin said the company had not defaulted in payment to FAAN and had not been informed about any upward review of the terms of the contract. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    