Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senate on Wednesday held a special valedictory session in honour of the late Senator Ignatius Longjan, who died after a brief illness on February 10. Senators took turns to extol the virtues of the former representative of the Plateau South Senatorial District in the National Assembly. Many described him as a wonderful man. The Minority Leader, Eyinnaya Abaribe, noted that death was sparing the wicked and taking the good ones out of the chamber. Abaribe said, “We are losing another good man. A few days ago, we were here doing this same thing for one of our colleagues. “The question we always ask is, why are we losing the good ones? All the wicked people are in this country, they don’t die; it is the good ones that go. “Today, we commiserate with the wife and children and the people that he (Longjan) represented and of course the diplomatic community from where he came and Nigerians in general.” The Deputy Minority Leader, Emmanuel Bwacha, said, “Good men are not many in our society today. For those of us who are alive, we have a lesson to learn to perfect our ways with God.” Senator Gabriel Suswam, said, “The two major religions should pray so that the almighty God does not continue to take the good people away. “Let Him be taking the bad ones as well, because most of them (good people) have left the chamber.” The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, noted that senators spoke glowingly of Longjan. “He was everything and yet he acted as if he was nobody. But it is established today that his actions and humility did not in any way place him in any disadvantage as far as the human characterisation is concerned. “So, there is also a lesson for us here. Just like most of our colleagues said, what do we want to be remembered for? We all want to be remembered for being good. “Our colleague passed on at the age of 75 years leaving behind great legacies of loyalty, hard work, commitment, dedication and of course, love for our fatherland. For our colleague to achieve what he did, he must have something special,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com ­