The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday, met with a delegation of political and traditional leaders from Kano State led by the State Governor, Alhaji Abdullahi Ganduje, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Speaking to State House correspondents after the meeting, the governor said they were in the presidential villa on a thank-you mission over the developmental efforts of the Buhari administration in Kano state. On farmer/herder conflicts, Ganduje said the state government had successfully addressed the problem through the prevention of migration of herdsmen from the state to other parts of the country. He said, “We have been able to solve the problem of herdsmen, farmers clash, we prevented the migration of herdsmen from Kano to other parts of the country. READ ALSO: No new case  of strange illness – Benue Health Commissioner “We are building herdsmen settlement for which we are providing an earth dam, industrial boreholes, building housing units, veterinary clinics, market cattle and a market for milk and so many others. School systems – primary and secondary schools, all that is required as essential services for the herdsmen are being provided.” He hailed the Buhari regime for addressing security challenges and ensuring socio-political stability in Kano State. The governor noted with delight the expansion of Aminu Kano International Airport, saying the new wing has been established and equipped. He also thanked the federal government for giving approval for Emirate Airline to fly Kano to Dubai as this would boost socio-economic activities in the state. He added, “We are here to inform him about the peace and stability in Kano. Kano State as of today is the most peaceful state in the country. “No armed robbery, no banditry, no tribal conflicts, no religious conflicts, even the few cases of kidnapping the kingpins are being arrested in Kano. “You will recall that those who attacked the deputy governor of Nasarawa state were arrested in Kano. Even the Magaji Darin Daura who was kidnapped for almost two months, the man behind it was arrested in Kano.’’ (NAN)