Friday Olokor, Abuja The Presidency on Tuesday said sacking service chiefs would create cracks in the country and threaten national unity. The Presidency added that there were processes that should be followed in the disengagement of heads of security agencies insisting that “at the right time, those processes will be followed.” The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, stated this at the National Christian Centre, Abuja, during the public presentation of a book titled, ‘CAN, Religion and Power in Nigeria,’ written by a former General Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Samuel Salifu. He said, “Well, I don’t think this (sacking of service chiefs) is appropriate for this forum; you don’t sack people like that. There are processes and I believe that at the opportune (sic) time, those processes will be followed. “We need everybody to be on board. We need synergy within the intelligence community, within the military formations that will help fight this war. We are in a very difficult situation and when we begin to create cracks and divisions who will be the beneficiaries?” The SGF described the book as a reservoir of information, history and past years of struggle. At the event, Ijaw leader and former Federal Commissioner for Information, Chief Edwin Clark, represented by a former Nigerian Ambassador to Scandinavia, Godknows Igali, attributed the insecurity and disunity in the country to religious differences. READ ALSO: Again, Boko Haram invades Chibok, razes buildings Clark said, “No religion should be regarded as superior to another or be given priority consideration. For instance, the whole country and indeed the international community is watching out to see how Mr President will handle the next appointments for the Presidency of the Court of Appeal as the current occupier bows out and the position becomes vacant on March 4, 2020. It is also the same for the service chiefs which will soon be vacant. My prayer is that Mr President will do the correct thing.” The President of CAN, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, advised government to put an end to the killings in the country. He said, “It will be good to make sure that those in government fight violence in Nigeria. Because if they fail to accomplish a Nigeria where there is peace and security, it will be sad and it will be part of their history forever and ever.” A former Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, His Eminence John Cardinal Onaiyekan said Nigeria would stand and flourish only when Muslims and Christians walk together to make religion a factor of stability, unity, peace and prosperity. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 