Feyisayo Popoola First City Monument Bank Plc has organised an empowerment programme for women entrepreneurs and small business owners. The bank said in a statement that the decision was in a bid to reiterate its commitment to the productivity and profitability of Small and Medium-Scaled Enterprises. It said the empowerment programme was done completely free of charge and in partnership with the Office of the First Lady of Ogun State, Mrs Bamidele Abiodun. The FCMB said the programme was themed ‘Supporting women businesses to scale up in 2020’. The Executive Director, Business Development, FCMB, Mrs Bukola Smith, said the bank recognised the increasing role and impact of SMEs, especially women-owned ones. She said, “It is a fact that in Nigeria, several women have risen through various challenges to become top entrepreneurs. Through resilience and innovation, they have taken the front seat in driving growth in this sector and by extension the larger economy. “However, we believe that women can do better in the SME ecosystem if provided with the requisite skills and other resources. “Overall, SMEs in Nigeria have what it takes to compete at the highest level in the international market, but without the requisite exposure and other forms of empowerment, it can be very difficult to succeed locally and internationally.” Smith expressed gratitude to the Ogun State Government and the Office of the First Lady for providing the enabling environment for businesses to thrive, while urging the participants to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the training to develop their businesses. Abiodun said she considered the empowerment programme as a step in the right direction. She commended the FCMB for the initiative, adding that she had no doubt that the 150 women entrepreneurs who participated in the initiative would be well-equipped to raise the performance of their respective businesses. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   