John Ameh, Abuja Nigeria and Ethiopia have signed a visa waiver agreement for diplomatic and official passport holders, the State House said on Wednesday morning. The two countries also signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the field of defence. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed witnessed the signing of the agreements on Tuesday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, signed for Nigeria, while Gedu Andargachew signed for his country. The Presidency in a statement by Buhari’s media aide, Mr Garba Shehu, said while meeting with the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Buhari had discussed how to explore new areas of collaboration to further enhance and expand Nigeria-Ethiopia bilateral cooperation for the mutual benefits of the two countries. READ ALSO: Beating Amotekun officers attracts N.25m fine, jail term The visa waiver agreement is expected to ease the travels of officials and contribute to the strengthening of bilateral relations. On the other hand, the “MoU on defence cooperation is important to both countries in the coordination of efforts in the fight against terrorism and securing peace and stability in their respective sub-regions, as well as on the continent of Africa”, it explained. It added that the MoU would enhance bilateral military cooperation in the areas of training and education, technical assistance, exchange of visits and defence technology transfer. It also entails cooperation in peace support operation issues within the framework of the respective laws of the parties and on a reciprocal basis. Both sides agreed to swiftly conclude negotiations on the revised Bilateral Air Services Agreement and the MoU on cultural cooperation. The consummation of these two agreements will provide veritable platforms for deepening existing air transport services, tourism and cultural exchanges between the two countries. Buhari expressed gratitude to the government and people of the Federal Republic of Ethiopia for the warm and generous hospitality extended to him and his delegation during the visit. He further extended an invitation to Prime Minister Ahmed to pay a reciprocal State Visit to Nigeria on mutually convenient dates.