Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Residents of Adelabu Street in the Surulere area of Lagos State were thrown into confusion on Tuesday when the lifeless body of a security guard with the National Power Training Institute of Nigeria was found on the road. It was gathered that the guard, identified simply as Sule, was stabbed to death by suspected robbers. Our correspondent was told that Sule had opened the company’s gate around 6.30am for some street sweepers who kept their tools in the company when he saw a lady struggling with the robbers. PUNCH Metro learnt that the guard attempted rescuing the victim when one of the assailants stabbed him in the stomach. When our correspondent visited the company on Thursday, members of staff, who refused to comment, directed her to the police. An eyewitness, who identified himself simply as Salisu, said the deceased had been buried according to Islamic rites. He said, “I learnt that he wanted to open the company’s gate for the street sweepers who kept their tools in the company when he saw the robbers trying to collect a lady’s bag. “He ran towards the robbers and held one of them, unknown to him that one of the robbers that was behind him was holding a knife. The robber stabbed him in the stomach and he died. He was buried by his brothers that same day according to Islamic rites.” A trader in the area, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that Sule had patronised her the day before the incident. She said, “He came to buy N150 worth of coconut a day before his death and gave me N100, saying that he would pay the N50 balance later. He was still with me when customers started trooping in and he joked that he was the one that brought me luck and he left. “I was surprised when I came back from the market the next day and was told that Sule was dead. His corpse was covered with a wrapper.” Another trader in the area, Ayinke Jamiu, told PUNCH Metro that Sule’s brother came to the company on Thursday to pack his belongings. She said, “When I got here on Tuesday, I saw people gathered around something and when I moved towards them, I saw Sule’s lifeless body on the floor. His brothers buried him that day; they came this afternoon (Thursday) to pack his belongings.” Our correspondent learnt that the matter was being investigated by the Aguda Police Station. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident, noted that the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had directed that the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department take up the case and ensure the arrest of the fleeing suspects. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com