Our Correspondents Hundreds of residents in Akure, Ondo State, on Monday stormed the office of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company to protest against their alleged extortion by the electricity company. The protesters, who were landlords on Ajayi Elekumo Estate in the Alagbaka area of the capital city, barricaded the entrance into the BEDC office and prevented officials of the company from having access to the premises. The group carried placards with different inscriptions, including, ‘FGN, this is wickedness,’ ‘We deserve a better life,’ ‘BEDC is evil,’ ‘BEDC enough of this cheating,’ ‘BEDC don’t force us to buy cables,’ among others. They alleged that BEDC officials were ‘killing’ them with outrageous bills, adding that the company had not been supplying the estate with electricity for a long time. One of the protesters, Mr. Fredrick Ojo, emphasised that they would no longer take billings because the estate had not had electricity in the last eight months. He said, “We demand an end to ridiculous and outrageous estimated bills. All cases of billing without electricity and humongous bills should be reviewed. “Everybody should be metered and no impediment should be placed in the way of acquisition of the meters.” Also, a member of the estate, Oluseye Olujimi, said the BEDC forced the residents to buy cables from a particular supplier, alleging that the cables were inferior. “No one should be forced to buy cables from BEDC; 16mm cannot be better than 35mm. If anyone needs to change their cables, they should not be forced to buy from a particular vendor. “Our rights to freedom of choice and self-determination cannot be abridged,” he added. The Chief State Head, Ondo/Ekiti State, BEDC, Mrs Kunbi Labiyi, in a statement on Monday, said the firm’s Akure business management team met with members of the Elekumo layout on January 25, 2020. She stated that during the meeting, the concerns of the residents, which included poor power supply, unjustified estimated bills and debt reconciliation challenges, were addressed. Labiyi said supply to parts of the area improved after the meeting as a result of the installation of spacers along the LT lines to prevent wires merging or twisting together. According to Labiyi, the BEDC also replaced rickety and fallen wooden poles to strengthen networks and reduce sags that could cause short circuiting of phases. “In addition, the residents were informed that the BEDC has network rehabilitation to proffer a lasting solution to the poor supply situation; the relocation of the existing transformer and commissioning of the new transformer,” she said. She said the BEDC had a detailed process for debt discount, reconciliation and debt rescheduling to address all issues relating to estimated billings, adding that customers were encouraged to take advantage of the process for a seamless resolution. According to Labiyi, another meeting has been scheduled with the residents. By: Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi and Peter Dada Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 