’Femi Asu Ikeja Electric Plc says it has donated an ultramodern phototherapy machine and clinical supplies to Ikorodu General Hospital, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility activities towards improvement of healthcare. The company said in a statement that a team, comprising staff from its headquarters in Ikeja and Ikorodu Business Unit, presented the items to management of the hospital. The company’s Chief Commercial Officer, Mrs Enobong Ezekiel, expressed the Disco’s commitment to positively impact on lives and give back to the society. She said, “Ikeja Electric is a customer-centric organisation, and it means that we are also committed to ensuring that we make impact on communities where we operate; that is why we are here. “Being here today is motivated by love. And to donate the phototherapy equipment and clinical items to the Paediatric Unit is something significant that will add value to what already exist in the hospital.” She said the company also came to appreciate the management and staff of the hospital for providing healthcare services to the neighbourhood and residents of Ikorodu town. “We love the fact that you are our customer. And we have come to do our community service,” Ezekiel added. The Medical Director, Ikorodu General Hospital, Dr Olufunmilayo Bankole, commended Ikeja Electric for the donation. Bankole said, “As a hospital, we are really elated to receive them, we are very happy that we have other organisations who like to partner with the government to make healthcare service in Lagos State much better than it is currently. “That phototherapy machine given to us today is going to serve a lot of children in treating jaundice. And we believe that if we are able to treat more people, we will be able to have a better health in our population in Lagos State. This phototherapy machine is going to go a long way in making a difference in the lives of these children.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com ­