Our Correspondents The Senator representing Plateau South in the National Assembly, Ignatius Longjan, is dead. Longjan, who was a deputy to former Governor Jonah Jang between 2011 and 2015, was said to have died in a Turkish hospital in Abuja on Monday. The 75-year-old Longjan was a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress. A family friend and his former media aide, Mr. Wulime Goyit, confirmed his death to our correspondent in Jos on Monday. Wulime said, “It is true. We just heard the news of his death this morning. It is really painful.” Meanwhile, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; his deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege; and the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase, were among dignitaries who on Monday mourned the death of the senator. Buhari, in a statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu, described the deceased as steadfast, loyal and diligent in his service to the nation. The statement read, “President Buhari affirms that the senator had been steadfast, loyal and diligent in serving the country and his contributions to peace and stability in the state will always be remembered.” Lawan, in a statement by his media aide, Ola Awoniyi, acknowledged Longjan’s contributions both at the state and national levels. He said the Senate would miss the deceased who was Vice Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Tourism as well as member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs. Omo-Agege, in a statement by his media aide, Yomi Odunuga, also described the deceased as a man with unalloyed faithfulness. The statement read, “We mourn the loss of the Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Culture and Tourism, Senator Longjan; a loyal ally who represented his people with a strong commitment to APC’s populist ideology.” Wase, in a condolence message issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Puma, said the deceased devoted his entire life to the service of the people of Plateau and his constituents. He said, “Late Ignatius Longjan was a beacon of hope for many people in Plateau State and for numerous other Nigerians as a result of his dedication to true service and kindness.” Also, Jang, in his reaction, described Longjan’s death as shocking. Jang, who spoke through his media consultant, Clinton Garuba, said he had lost a political soulmate and a friend. The Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, expressed shock over the death of the senator. Lalong, in a statement by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Macham, said, “We have lost a man of honour and candour, who in all his affairs always put the interests of Plateau State first. We will surely miss him.” By: John Ameh, Sunday Aborisade, Leke Baiyewu and James Abraham Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 