Success Nwogu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Thursday blamed the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), for the challenges Nigerians living and working in Lagos State are facing following the ban on the use of commercial motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (Keke Marwa) in the state. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement also said Buhari in 1985, terminated the initial Lagos metro rail line project started by the government of Alhaji Lateef Jakande to facilitate mass transportation within Lagos, as Nigeria’s commercial nerve center, and surrounding cities. While sympathising with Nigerians over the ban, he stated that had Buhari not terminated that laudable project by the Lagos State Government, Lagosians would not be suffering the transportation infrastructure deficit they are faced with currently. The PDP’s spokesman urged the Federal Government to apologise to Lagos State for terminating the metro rail line and take urgent steps to address the transport situation of the state. He, however, said without prejudice to the reasons adduced by the Lagos State Government, alternatives ought to have been put in place before the ban. He said, “By now, Lagos state would have been boasting of state-of-the-art transportation infrastructure and facilities with an associated economic boom like her peers in other parts of the world. “It is saddening to note that not only did the termination of the initial metro line slowed down and almost crippled development in Lagos, Buhari’s current administration has also continued to fail to take conclusive step to address the transportation challenges in Lagos, despite outcries by Nigerians. Furthermore, leaders of Lagos state have consistently demanded a special status recognition for the state, expectedly, to ease infrastructural quagmire of the state.” According to him, one would have expected that with the level of support Lagosian reportedly gave to Buhari in 2015 and 2019, he would have addressed the needs of the state as a commercial nerve center of the nation. He said the All Progressives Congress, as a party, has allegedly failed in calling out the FG to address the infrastructure challenges in Lagos. He stated that such an attitude toward the development of a city such as Lagos showed that the APC has no interest in the growth of the nation and the welfare of the citizens. Ologbondiyan said, “However, without prejudice to the reasons adduced by the Lagos State Government, for us in the PDP, as a party, which has the interest and wellbeing of the people at heart; alternatives ought to have been put in place before this ban. Such an attitude to governance is the marked difference between our party and the APC. “The PDP, therefore, counsels the government of Lagos State to immediately adopt alternatives to ease the suffering of the people as their welfare ought to be its primary focus of governance. “The FG should also apologize to Lagos state for terminating the metro rail line and take urgent steps to address the transport situation of the state.”