Daud Olatunji Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has ordered that the embargo placed on bank accounts of all the 20 local government areas in the state be lifted with effect from Monday, February 17. Abiodun’s order came eight months after he placed embargo on the accounts of the LGAs. The governor had last June placed an embargo on all the LGAs and threatened to sanction any bank that failed to comply. Abiodun announced the unfreezing of the accounts on Friday at a strategic session for transition committee chairmen and members of all the LGAs in the state. The workshop, which had the theme, ‘Towards a New Local Government System in Ogun: Doing Things Differently,’ took place at the Executive Council Chambers, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. In a statement, the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Kunle Somorin, quoted Abiodun as describing the LGAs as the closest to the people. He said for the people to feel the impact of government, those at the helm of affairs at the council level must embark on people-oriented projects and be fair in their dealings with them. The governor said, “The process through which you were appointed was a consensus-oriented one. I did not sit down here at Oke-Mosan and appoint anyone. I allowed your leaders and party faithful sit down in your various local government councils and present to us those they consider best for them and the people. In his presentation, the guest speaker, a Professor of Local Government and Development Studies at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Prof. Mike Adeyeye, explained that local government was an important tier of government but was generally regarded as subordinate in the development process. He said though local government was endowed with great potential which provide the best platform to take people out of poverty, it was however weighed down by weak mechanism of local accountability in terms of stewardship and social impact, low internal revenue base and near-dependence on federal allocation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    