A former Governor of Kebbi State, Alhaji Adamu Aliero, who represents Kebbi Central Senatorial District at the Senate tells FEMI MAKINDE that Nigeria should continue to close its land borders as long as neighbouring countries continue to use their countries to smuggle foreign products into Nigeria Would you say the border closure policy is still serving intended purpose? Of course, it is still serving the purpose it is meant for. Border closure has generated a lot of economic activities in the country and many Nigerians are happy because of this.  Employments are being provided for thousands of Nigerians as a result of this policy. Before the the nation’s land borders were closed sometimes last year, our rice farmers could not get market for their products because foreign rice flooded the markets all over the country. Rice was brought from all over the world and they dumped it in Nigeria killing business of our local farmers. Now that the borders are closed, local farmers now have market for whatever they produce. Rice millers are also busy now; they buy from farmers, prepare it and sell to Nigerians. I recall that rice millers complained to Nigeria Customs Service, Central Bank of Nigeria and others that their warehouses were filled with local rice because there was no market to sell it.  But since the border closure policy became effective, Nigerians have been buying locally-produced rice because foreign rice is no longer available. Before this time, imported rice was all over the country and no import duty was paid, tonnes of rice were brought into the country without going through security clearance at the ports. On every bag of foreign rice smuggled into the country, Nigerian government  loses close to N8,000 of import duty and you can multiply that by the number of bags that comes into the country. The amount of import duty lost then was so huge. The amount of money runs into billions of naira. That is the loss which Nigeria incurred on rice alone. We have to commend the Federal Government for the border closure because it has also generated alot of activities in the poultry sector. Smuggled eggs, chickens, turkeys used to flood Nigerian markets. I am a poultry farmer and I can tell you that this border closure has really helped poultry farmers. Before the border closure, our eggs could last for a week but now we can’t meet the demands and we have to collect from others to sell. This is so because foreign eggs that were used to be smuggled in are no longer on the market. Vegetable oil and tomato paste were also being smuggled into the country before the borders were closed. But they are no longer so now. Smuggled products kill the economy.  No responsible country will allow its borders to be opened in a way we were doing before.  That is why the Federal Government’s policy on border is a very commendable one. As long as our neighbours are using their countries to smuggle in these foreign products, our borders should remain closed. Recently, fuel stations close to borders were closed down…. Petroleum products were smuggled out of the country before the policy started. The Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation made a statement that they are now saving about 30 per cent petroleum products being imported for use in Nigeria.  This means we have been importing and part of what the government imported and paid subsidies on were smuggled outside the country. This means we have succeeded in reducing the incidence of smuggling of petroleum products because of border closure. Has border closure affected security situation in the country in any way? It is said that most of the arms used by the insurgents and bandits were brought in through the borders. We saw a reduction in criminal activities due to border closure before now. However, they have scaled up the attacks on innocent people now and that is why everybody should play their roles in ensuring an effective security arrangement. But how do you think arms proliferation can be stopped? This problem can be solved if we are serious in enforcing border formalities  and also clearance of goods at the ports. Sometimes these arms and ammunition come in through the ports. We have seen how about 10 or 15 containers were smuggled into Tincan Island Port. The comptroller of Customs had to go there. Efforts like that, especially by law enforcement agencies like Customs, are good. If they continue to be vigilant, and patriotic we will solve the problem of smuggled weapons. Also, whatever is coming in through the borders and ports should be thoroughly checked to make sure that there is no concealment of arms. Arms proliferation will be tackled significantly if law enforcement agents are alive to their duties at various points of entry. There are reports that despite the border closure, smuggled items still find their ways into Nigerian markets. What do you think is responsible for this? You cannot stamp out corruption within this short period of time. You have to sustain the fight continuously. It is not possible to root out corruption in this short period, it is not possible but you have to sustain the fight and device strategies to beat this. It can be reduced to the barest minimum. One of the strategies to tackle this is that those posted at the borders should be changed periodically. If they stay too long, the tendency to compromise is there but if they are changed on a regular basis, the issue of compromise will be reduced. Do you agree that lack of adequate personnel to monitor various illegal routes that lead to the country is a problem? There are so many routes that lead into the country but we have what is called approved routes. Normally if you are bringing anything into the country legally, you come through the approved routes. The unapproved routes are where the offending items come through but eventually they will still come to the main roads where you have the customs officers, police, soldiers and others. They should be able to spot illegal items here and control it if they are not compromised. But don’t we need technological devices like drones to monitor our borders? What we need most are vehicles fitted with communication gadgets. With these, security agents will be able to monitor effectively and communicate well with their sister agencies. We don’t need drones because that will be too expensive. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   