Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Kogi State Police Command has launched a manhunt for the abductors of a law graduate of the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, Motunrayo Rafiu, in the Kabba area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that Rafiu, who was abducted alongside others, on February 4, 2020, was on her way to resume at the Abuja campus of the Nigerian Law School. Our correspondent learnt that when Rafiu could not be reached on her telephone, she was declared missing by her friends, who posted her pictures on the social media. A colleague, who identified himself only as Victor, noted that he communicated with Rafiu till around 11am when her telephone number became unreachable. He said, “I reside in Abuja and she told me that she would be coming on Tuesday. “She called me around 9am when they left the park at Ogere and we communicated till around 11am. When I tried to call her number around 2pm, it was switched off. One hour later, I tried the number again, but it was picked by a man who identified himself as a security guard. “He was the one that told me that my friend and some other people had been kidnapped. He said he had combed the bush to search for them, but could not find them. “He said he found her phone and three other phones in the vehicle they boarded but that my friend’s phone was passworded so he could not make a call through it but he could only pick her calls. “He later told me that he was going home because it was getting late already but that the police had taken the vehicle they boarded to the station. “As of Wednesday, the kidnappers contacted the family and demanded N5m. Her dad is late and it was just her mum who had been crying since she heard of the incident.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Williams Aya, said the command had launched a manhunt for the kidnappers. He said, “We don’t know the identity of the three people that were kidnapped that day, so we cannot say if she was among the victims. “It was reported that three people were kidnapped in the Kabba area. We have been making efforts to ensure the rescue of the victims.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com