Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Monday arraigned the member representing Bomadi/Patani Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Nicholas Mutu, for alleged abuse of office and fraud involving about N320m. Mutu, a former Chairman of the House of Representatives’ Committee on the Niger Delta Development Commission, was arraigned before Justice Folashade Giwa-Ogunbanjo of the Federal high Court in Abuja. He was arraigned on 11 counts alongside Airworld Technologies Limited, Oyien Homes Ltd; and one Blessing Mutu, said to be on the run. The EFCC alleged, among others that Mutu, while being the Chairman of the House Committee on NDDC, between August 2014 and August 2016 “did procure Airworld Technologies Limited to conceal the sum of N320,159, 689.63 to be paid by Starline Consultancy Services Limited, when you reasonably ought to have known that the said sum of N320, 159, 689.63 formed part of proceeds of corruption, gratification and fraudulent acquisition of property.” The offence was said to be contrary to Section 18(c) (d) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act 2011 as amended by Act No. 1 of (2012) and punishable under section 15(3) of the same Act. He pleaded not guilty to the 11 counts preferred against him and his co-accused by the EFCC. The EFCC’s lawyer, Ekele Iheanacho, requested the judge to fix a date for trial and remand the defendant in prison. But defence lawyer, Patrick Ikweto (SAN), informed the court that he had filed a bail application on behalf of his client. EFCC’s lawyer, Iheanacho, opposed the request to release the defendant to his lawyer. He said the commission had previously granted an administrative bail which he never honoured. Ruling, the judge directed the defendant to continue in the previous administrative bail granted him by the EFCC. The judge adjourned till February 25 for trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    