Nike Popoola NICON Insurance Limited says it has settled the claims of the deceased students of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti who lost their lives and sustained injuries during the September 10, 2019 protest in the campus. A statement said this was part of its quest to regain industry confidence back by settling claims among university students across the country. It stated that the injured students were paid N120,000, while relations of the deceased received N145,000 Two students died during the clash with the police while three were injured, it added. At the cheque presentation, the Executive Director, Marketing and Brand Operations, NICON Insurance, Debo Oladejo, explained that the policy tagged, ‘Student Welfare Insurance Scheme’, was an innovation of the company to cushion the effect of students and their sponsors in case of death or injury during the school session. According to Oladejo, the cheques were presented in the names of Okonofua Esther, Mrs Mary Dada, Olamilekan Muiz, Elijah Azeez and Eyiola Ayomide. He urged students of the institution to explore the option of dialogue whenever contention issue arose. The statement said the Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof Kayode Soremekun, expressed delight over the claims payment of insurance to policyholders’ in the country. He noted that the amount of claims paid by NICON Insurance had changed his perspective on underwriting firms across the country. He added that the payment was premised on the N1,000 paid as premium by students. The statement said two died with several others injured from gunshot wounds sustained after policemen opened fire on students. It added that the demonstration was led by the ousted Student Union Government President, Awoodola Oluwaseun, over poor power supply in the campus. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com ­