Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi Thirteen people have been killed in multiple accidents that occurred in Bauchi within few hours’ intervals. It was gathered that the accidents occurred in Tashan Maiturare and Takandan Giwa both along the ever-busy Bauchi-Jos Expressay in the Toro Local Government Area of the state. The first accident which occurred at about 9pm on Thursday involved a Peugeot J5 bus which had a head-on collision and busted into flames. Our correspondent learnt that 11 persons died on the spot in the crash while others sustained injuries. The second accident was a lone crash which occurred in the early hours of Friday, involving a Vectra car around Takandan Giwa village. The accident reportedly occurred when the car skidded off the road into the bush leaving two people dead while others were injured. A source told our correspondent that the two accidents were caused by violation of traffic rules by the drivers. The Head of Operations, Federal Road Safety Corps, Bauchi State Sector Command, Ibrahim Abubakar, who confirmed the accidents to our correspondent, said only eight people died in the accident, adding that there was no casualty in the second accident. He stated that the crash was caused by over speeding and tyre burst, adding that two vehicles, a white commercial Ducato bus with the number plate BLG625XA and a blue commercial Galaxy mini-bus, were involved in the crash. He said, “When our men were called upon, we rushed to the scene of the crash for rescue operation. As soon as we got there, we evacuated the victims to the Toro General Hospital for medical attention. “It was at the hospital that eight people (seven males and one female) were confirmed dead by a medical doctor. The remaining three (two males and one female) sustained various degrees of injury.” He said the injured victims were receiving medical attention while the corpses had been deposited in mortuary and would soon be released to their loved ones for burial. Abubakar, who is the Deputy Corp Commander in the state, urged drivers to be more vigilant and obey traffic regulations. He added, “We will not stop calling on motorists to be vigilant always while on the highway and to obey road traffic laws to protect lives and property. They should also desist from night travels. We have always advised them to plan their journeys so that they don’t have to travel at night.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 