FIFA has confirmed why it has not paid 2019 Women’s World Cup prize money to Nigeria. The Super Falcons featured in each of the past editions since its inception in 1991 but only made it to the Round of 16 for the first time since 1999 last year before they were kicked out by Germany. Despite a 3-0 defeat to the two-time world champions at Stade des Alpes in Grenoble, a Round of 16 qualification means the West African nation will receive N1m as prize money. “Regarding your request, as part of our long-term vision to invest into the development of women’s football at all levels, prior to last year’s FIFA Women’s World Cup in France, FIFA announced that it would more than triple the financial contribution for participating Member Associations in the tournament to USD 50 million,” Will, a member of FIFA’s media department wrote to Goal. “This included a 100 per cent increase in prize money (compared to 2015) and the introduction of a FIFA Women’s World Cup Club Benefits Programme. “Regarding the preparation money for the tournament and the funds for the FIFA Women’s World Cup Club Benefits Programme, we can confirm that this has been distributed to all 24 participating member associations. “On prize money, FIFA is currently working with a small number of member associations – including the NFF – to conclude outstanding prize money related to last year’s tournament.” With no surety of when FIFA will make the payment, players and officials of the Super Falcons will have to wait for a little longer for their share of the 30 per cent agreed compensation with the NFF. While awaiting the appointment of a substantive coach, the African champions have not regrouped since they crashed out of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic on away-goals against Cote d’Ivoire last October. They are scheduled to face either Niger or Togo in the second round of the African Women’s Cup of Nations qualifier in June when they start their build-up to defend their crown later this year. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 