Leke Baiyewu, Abuja A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has barred the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and the House Committee on Ethic and Privileges from punishing factional leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party caucus. The aggrieved lawmakers, led by Mr Kingsley Chinda, had dragged the Speaker and the committee to court to prevent an alleged plan to suspend the lawmakers indefinitely for claiming to be leaders of the PDP caucus. The other factional leaders are Chukwuka Onyema, Gideon Gwani and Muraina Ajibola. Our correspondent on Tuesday obtained a certified true copy of the ruling by Justice I. E. Ekwo of the Federal High Court in the case, which was filed on February 3, 2020. The plaintiffs joined Gbajabiamila; Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori; Clerk to the House, Patrick Giwa; Chairman of the committee, Kola Lawal; and 16 members of the panel and the PDP as defendants. The House had on November 3, 2019, resolved to investigate four members who claimed to be leaders of the PDP caucus. Chinda and the three others had lost their battle for the leadership of the minority caucus of the House. While the PDP nominated them for the minority caucus leadership, the conglomerate of opposition parties in the House had appointed Ndudi Elumelu as Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu as Deputy Minority Leader, Gideon Gwani as Minority Whip, and Adesegun Adekoya as Deputy Minority Whip. However, Chinda had signed statements as the PDP Caucus Leader; Onyema as Deputy Caucus Leader; Barde as Caucus Whip; and Ajibola as the Deputy Caucus Whip. The Chinda-led faction was said to have approached the court after sighting a copy of the report by the panel, in which the lawmakers were allegedly recommended for indefinite suspension. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com