Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki The Indigenous People of Biafra on Wednesday alleged that Boko Haram, bandits and others were the real security challenges facing the country, not the forthcoming burial of the parents of its leader, Nnamdi Kanu. The proscribed group asked the Nigerian Army to leave the Isiama Afaraukwu community of the IPOB leader and return to the North-East, where bandits and Boko Haram fundamentalists were terrorising and killing innocent citizens. It alleged that the heavy presence of the military in Kanu’s country home, was indicative of the fact that the military had lost focus of the fight against insurgency. The Media and Publicity Director of the group, Emma Powerful, said this in a statement on Wednesday. The statement read in part, “We continue to draw the attention of the civilised world to the incessant harassment, humiliation, intimidation of Afaraukwu community in Umuahia-Ibeku by the very lazy and shameless Nigerian Army. READ ALSO: Ganduje welcomes man who trekked 76km for him “In the history of world military, the brazen and cowardly display of military might in Isiama Afaraukwu by the Nigerian Army as Boko Haram and other Fulani-sponsored terror groups wreak havoc on defenceless citizens is confirmation that Buratai and his men are not true soldiers but mere terrorists with constitutional backing. This is because real soldiers fight wars not terrorising innocent civilians preparing for burial. “We wish to notify the world that preparations for the burial of our leader’s parents is going ahead as planned. The Nigerian Army is wasting their time and valuable resources in trying to stop something they know they are incapable of stopping. Burial of the dead is a right older than man itself.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 