Rasheed Bisiriyu Kia Motors Corporation has revealed more images of its new fourth generation Sorento, ahead of its formal launch on March 3 at the Geneva motor show. The new model marks the first-time adoption of hybrid power in the Sorento line-up, the Korean automaker said in a statement on Tuesday through its Nigeria’s representative, Dana Motors. The all-new midsize SUV designed for the 2021 model year is said to have been engineered to take on everything life can throw at it. “The Sorento raises standards in its segment for practicality, offering space on a par with larger vehicles,” the statement added. Going by its range of innovation, the new generation Sorento targets the global SUV market. It has reportedly come with advanced driver assistance systems and progressive connectivity and infotainment features. Kia also said the vehicle would ride on a new platform dedicated to the SUV and was developed with more space inside the cabin than segment rivals. “The all-new Kia Sorento will make its world premiere at the 2020 Geneva International Motor Show,” the auto firm said. Before the new images officially released by Kia, there had been speculations about the coming of the 2021 Sorento with spy pictures, many of them widely shared on online platforms. Like motor1.com and caranddriver.com, thekeea.com had reported that the previous spy shots did not really show much in the images with heavy camouflage covering many of the features. However, the online auto journal said, “There are some visible parts that allow us to make some assumptions about how the new generation Sorento crossover might look without the camo. “When compared to the current model, this one appears to be a little bolder and boxier. It would seem that Kia have lifted some of the design cues seen on the new Telluride SUV, although there will still be plenty of elements designed to keep models unique.” It also noted that its big alloy wheels painted black, as well as the now familiar Kia signature grille, with this surrounded by chrome. Some subtle changes to the grille were reported, with the new look being a little edgier than the current model. “What we can’t see, but which we know are coming in the new model, are some big enhancements that will help with the ride and handling,” it stated, adding, “The use of Kia’s ‘Smart Stream’ powertrain technology will also deliver an improvement in fuel efficiency.” Apart from the standard model, the auto reviewer also hinted about the feature of both a hybrid and a plug-in hybrid models made available, largely quoting another source, autotribune.co.kr. Upgraded interior Another auto journal, autoblog.com claimed to have seen the inside of the vehicle and reported that it would be an upgraded interior. It stated, “We’ve seen spy shots of the next-generation Kia Sorento in both heavily camouflaged form and running laps around the Nürburgring, where it was wearing a more form-fitting wrap. “Today, Instagram user CocheSpias leaked photos of the redesigned midsize SUV with the cover partially pulled back, giving us our best look yet inside and out. “Inside, the seat stitching is similar to the pattern found on the larger and more upmarket Telluride, introduced last year. The cluster and centre stack have been redesigned, with a larger touchscreen that is now separate from the heat vents. The shifter has been replaced by a dial shifter.” Exterior It also gave a vivid description of the look of the vehicle externally. Specifically, it stated, “Kia has given the front fascia a thorough and stylish overhaul. It looks much more muscular and chiselled, with a crisp, curved line defining the hood and grille and a much more squared-off shape to the lower bumper. “The clustered trio of LED headlights are more integrated with the grille by removing the chrome strip that formerly separated them. The exposed taillights that featured on the mule spotted on the ‘Ring have been resolved as double vertical hash marks. The lower bumper is still concealed.” Engine performance As a three-row crossover, the all-Kia Sorento is expected to come in a choice of two engines: a 2.4-litre inline-four making 185 horsepower and 178 pound-feet of torque, or a 3.3-litre V6 offering 290 hp and 252 lb-ft of torque. Sorento supports Lagos city marathon Meanwhile, the auto firm has said the plan for the fifth edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon sponsored by Kia Motors Nigeria is in top gear with the 2020 Kia Sorento ready to set the pace as the race official lead vehicle. It said in a separate statement that Kia had continuously engaged the teeming athletes and sporting fans locally and internationally. “The sponsorship of the Lagos Marathon has helped increased the local brand equity of Kia through experiential marketing and penetrate the youth segment,” it stated. According to the firm, the event slated for Saturday February 8 promises to be a very enthralling sporting event. “At Kia, we’re proud to partner Access Bank and Nilayo Sports Management on the Lagos Marathon,” said Kia’s Chief Executive Officer, Jacky Hathiramani. He added, “We are especially excited to showcase the 2020 Kia Sorento to the participants and fans of this iconic racing event. Using the sporting event as a CSR touch point with the people through our promotion of a healthy lifestyle, the Lagos Marathon will continue to redefine the health/fitness paradigm of the state and the country at large.” The statement added that two units of Kia Rio would be won by each leading female and male runner for the 10km fun runner and $500,000 cash prizes to be won by all runners. “The Access Bank Lagos City Marathon will witness over 30,000 participants, including world-class Nigerian and international athletes, professional and amateur runners, and fitness enthusiasts,” it stated. The Marketing Manager, Kia Motors Nigeria, Olawale Jimoh, said Kia’s sponsorship of Nigeria’s premier local race, the Lagos City Marathon were all parts of the company’s effort to promote health and fitness in the communities, the world over. He said, “Sport has always been an integral part of Kia’s business operation and footprint across the globe. Kia’s association with multiple sports, ranging from tennis to football, athletics, among others, has produced many award-winning sportspersons; helped the development of marginal communities and supported sporting teams, national and international events.” The statement also quoted the CEO of Nilayo Sports Management Company, Bukola Olopade, as saying, “As we have earlier promised, 2020 edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon will witness a lot of innovations; one of which is the introduction of the $20,000 bonus for world-class performances.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 