Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja Tracka, a project initiated by a  pro-transparency group BudgIT,  to track the performance of   government budgets has  clarified that  it  was  the Federal Government  that executed the N100m computer project in  Gombe State, not the state government. Tracka, which also collaborates with the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, had posted photographs of the computers on its official Twitter handle. “N100m was allocated in the 2019 budget for the supply of 100 computers in Filya, Gombe State. We tracked, and report that the computers have been delivered. #GetInvolved,” it had tweeted. The PUNCH had earlier reported that it was the state government that executed the project. However, Head of Tracka, Ilevbaoje Uadame, told The PUNCH on Tuesday that it was a project that was implemented by Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation through the National Lottery Trust Fund. Uadame said investigations by Tracka showed that although N100m was budgeted for the computers, only 30 per cent of the fund (N32.7m) was actually released. READ ALSO: Flight diversion to Ghana, Benin, Niger embarrassing –Reps He stated, “It is not a state government project but part of the Federal Government’s 2019 project. So, what happened was that the project was voted by Binta Bello who is no longer a member of the House (of Representatives). She was succeeded by Simon Karu. “N100m was budgeted for 100 computers. There was a 30 per cent release of the fund which was N32.7m and he (Karu) said he was able to facilitate the delivery of 150 computers. We have investigated and seen 100 computers. He said the remaining computers are in Katungo. But the facts as stated in the budget show that N100m was budgeted for 100 computers.” Meanwhile, the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of Gombe State, Ismaila Misilli, in a statement said, “The Gombe State Government wishes to once again state that there is nothing like the provision of desktop computers in its budget or their procurement. All information about Gombe State budgets are adequately captured and provided on its website.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 