In this piece, SUCCESS NWOGU takes a cursory look at the two-year tenure of the current National Chairman of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, Prince Uche Secondus and posits that holding the big umbrella together has been an onerous task Since falling from its commanding height as arguably the largest ruling political party in “black and white” Africa in 2015, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party is still struggling to find its feet. Some analysts argue that the party’s problems largely stem from past failed attempts to manage success. “The problem of the PDP, like most political parties in developing countries, is largely a battle of egos between tendencies at the top” argues Auwual Musa, an Abuja-based public affairs commentator. He notes that some individuals see the party as a mere vehicle to achieve their political ambitions rather than a vehicle for service as is the case in developed political climes. Internal wrangling which led to the party’s loss at the polls especially in 2015, has rather than abate, developed a life of its own during the period leading up to the 2019 elections. The party which, is expected to provide credible opposition, to check the excesses of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the ruling All Progressives Congress, has been struggling to adjust to the unfamiliar terrain of being the main party in opposition. Maybe because the party enjoyed the luxury of spending the first of its 16 formative years in power without a vibrant external opposition. After so much bickering over the real reasons the party lost in 2015, party leaders settled for Prince Uche Secondus, who took the oath of office at the party’s National Convention held at the Eagle Square, on Sunday, December 10, 2017. Secondus, emerged after a hard-won electoral battle against a former Minister of Education, Professor Tunde Adeniran; the Founder of Daar Communications, Raymond Dokpesi, and a Former Minister of Sports and Special Duties, Taoheed Adedoja. Known among friends and foes alike as, “Total Chair” because of his famed loyalty to friends and party, the Andoni, Rivers State born politician, has had a running battle with internal and external forces bent on having their ways. To his credit, the party has enjoyed modest improvements in its electoral fortunes in 2019 when compared to its outing in 2015. From 11 state governors in 2015, the party increased its tally to 16 in 2019. However, maintaining discipline among the party’s rank and file has remained an uphill task.  For one, the mutual suspicion which exists between the party leadership and some of its governors has become a major obstacle to the party’s attempts to rise from the ashes of its electoral defeat at the centre. For example, the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has on more than one occasion challenged the party’s authority by threatening to “deal with it” should he fail to have his way. When there were rumours that the PDP was considering an alternative venue for its 2019 presidential primary election outside Port-Harcourt, the governor openly dared the party leadership to try it and await his response. When some members of the party supported Ndudi Elumelu, to emerge as Minority Leader in the House of Representatives contrary to the party’s preferred choice, Kingsley Chinda, Wike didn’t hide his feelings either.  Also, the Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, has been consistent in extolling the virtues of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari, even while the party was in court challenging the President’s 2019 electoral victory.  The case of Wike was dramatic. When the party condemned the Supreme Court for upholding the election of Buhari, the governor went to town to congratulate the APC candidate. In defence of his action, Wike said, “I am sure all of you are surprised that I congratulated Buhari. Is it not good for me to congratulate him than to go to his house in the night? So many PDP governors go to see him (Buhari) in his house in the night. I have never gone and I will not go. President Buhari, congratulations! Carry Nigerians along (in your regime).” His altercation with the former Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson, who was the PDP Governors Forum Chairman, over party related and other issues, is equally a well-documented fact. The political dispute between the two party heavyweights contributed in no small measure to PDP’s intial loss in the 2019 Bayelsa Governorship race. Although the APC candidate, David Lyon, was declared the winner by INEC, the PDP candidate, Duoye Diri, was eventually inaugurated as the governor following the Supreme Court judgement which nullified Lyon’s victory because of forged documents allegedly presented by his running mate, Degi Eremienyo. The PDP was also caught in a web of intrigues when party leaders found it difficult to reach a consensus on who should bear its flag in the 2019 Kogi Governorship election. Its rancorous primary election which produced Musa Wada, as candidate, created so much acrimony that left many party members reconsidering their membership. One of the aspirants, Senator Dino Melaye, even “wished the PDP luck”; while declining his appointment into the party’s campaign council for the election. In spite of the fact that, the party is still ruing its loses in Kogi elections, some of its leading members such as Umahi and a member of the party’s Board of Trustees, Senator Daisy Danjuma, practically endorsed the embattled Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki of the APC for a second term in office, leaving many to wonder if the PDP wasn’t interested in presenting a candidate for the Edo 2020 governorship election. Umahi was quoted as telling Obaseki’s wife, Betsy, who led some southern governors’ wives on a courtesy visit to his office, “I can assure you, ma, because of the good work which your husband is doing for the people of Edo State, no man can unseat him. Even in our National Economic Council meeting, when Obaseki speaks, you see that his economic policies are sound. You see a man that came from private sector background.  So, congratulations to you in advance and to all of us.” Mrs Danjuma, who was quoted as declaring support for Obaseki, reportedly defended her actions insisting that it was within her right as an individual to endorse the governor. This position didn’t appeal to the Edo State chapter of the PDP, as its outgoing chairman, Dan Orbih, fired a strongly worded letter to the national leadership of the party, asking that the two party members be sanctioned. Making light of the situation, Secondus told reporters, “Anything that has to do with our governors and the altercation between the governments of Rivers State and Bayelsa State, we should just let it lie low.  Enough is enough. What we do behind the scene is not to the knowledge of the press and we are not ready to disclose that because we have our strategies. You may think that is the weakness, but that’s the sign of strength. I have been in this party long before Governor Wike became governor. I was the Chairman of the PDP in River State for eight years, the National Organising Secretary for four years, Deputy National Chairman and acting National Chairman. All that time, where did I take directive from? Is it now that I am fully the chairman that I have to take directives (from Wike)? That is a rumour and blackmail and we are not ready to pay any attention to such. Responding to Umahi’s alleged endorsement of Obaseki, he explained that Umahi merely expressed his opinion and not that of the PDP. He noted that being a governor does not deprive an individual from airing his personal opinion on issues. The chairman said, “In a democratic world and free speech, people can have the right to do so, but that is not the position of the PDP.” As if the chairman does not have sufficient trouble to deal with, a shadowy group of party stakeholders under the aegis of Concerned Stakeholders have allegedly begun moves to unseat him.  The group’s activities are currently shrouded in secrecy-even as a member of the party’s National Working Committee, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the development. According to the party stalwart, the main objective of the group is to restore the PDP ‘‘to its former glory.’’ To achieve this goal, the group is said to be working to seek the return the party’s former National Secretary, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, as well as other aggrieved pioneer party members who left for other political parties. It is not very clear if Oyinlola has returned to the party. The source said, “Almost all the state chapters of our great party are in serious crises. We lost most of these states and several seats at the National Assembly to the crises, due to poor leadership at the national level and we cannot wait to have a repeat of the losses in 2023.” However, the PDP National Publicity, Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, dismissed such claims. He insisted allegations made by the faceless group against the national chairman were not only baseless but also untrue. Ologbondiyan, described the party chairman as a team player whose only interest was restoring the party to its lost glory. The party spokesman said, “The party is not aware of that (plot) and we do not thrive on rumour. The national chairman is carrying every member of the party along. It is not an issue at all. These allegations are untrue. They are without basis. PDP is united and unassailable. As far as the party is concerned, they are not issues, there is no crisis and there are no quarrels. I do not even believe that there is any plot anywhere.”  Time will determine if the likes of Ologbondiyan can go to bed with such a confidence or they need to check under the party’s umbrella if the enemies within can or cannot cause any harm. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 