Okechukwu Nnodim Abuja Electricity Distribution Company has announced its readiness to complete the N1.04bn power evacuation project designed to improve power supply in Nasarawa State and its environs. It said the project was designed to evacuate power from the two 150MVA 330/132KV and two other 60MVA 132/33KV transmission substations at Akurba being built by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company. The Disco described the project as an intervention scheme designed to step down bulk power for the Transmission Company of Nigeria from the 330KV Ikot-Ekpene-Ugwuaji-Apir-Jos transmission line. The Managing Director, AEDC, Ernest Mupwaya, who was recently at the project site to inspect the extent of work done so far, said the Disco was preparing its networks for the evacuation of load that would become available from the transmission facility slated for completion in the first quarter of 2020. He said, “The TCN project will provide a massive boost in power supply to Nasarawa State up to southern Kaduna and even parts of Plateau State. “There will be more hours of electricity available on the network and a significant improvement in the voltage profile of the state.” Mupwaya added, “However, if we do not play our own part, that power will not get into people’s homes. We are putting all efforts at ensuring the project is completed in good time.” The evacuation project includes the construction of four 33KV feeders, a new 5MVA injection substation for the rice mill in Lafia. Others include take-off bays for the new two units of 60MVA 132/33KV Akurba Transmission station in Lafia, the rehabilitation of existing 33KV and 11KV distribution lines across the state and the relief and upgrading of distribution transformers. It also includes the upgrade of two units of 1MVA injection substations to 5MVA at Awe and Keana areas, and the upgrade of a 2.5MVA injection substation at Obi to a 5MVA injection substation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 