Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has issued a warrant of arrest on the Managing Director and Chief Executive  Officer of the Ogun-Osun River Basin Development Authority, Mr Olufemi Olayemi, for failing  to appear before it in the probe into the audited accounts of ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The House Committee on Public Accounts, at an investigative hearing in Abuja on Wednesday, directed its Clerk to issue the warrant on the CEO, while directing the agency to re-appear before it over a backlog of unaudited accounts. The Chairman of the committee, Mr Oluwole Oke, who recalled that he particularly directed Olayemi to appear on Wednesday, wondered why the CEO failed to show up. Oke also asked the Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, to appear before the committee to explain the unaudited accounts of the Water Basin Development Authorities under the ministry. In a related development, the committee also placed the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, the Nigerian Agriculture  Quarantine Service and the National Insurance Commission under status enquiry for failing to submit their audited accounts to the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation. The committee also grilled the management of the Federal Medical Centre, Jabi, Abuja; Federal Medical Centre, Ebute Meta, Lagos; and other hospitals for keeping a backlog of unaudited accounts. Meanwhile, Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, said the parliament would do all it could to pass the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill before the end of June 2020. The Speaker said this when a delegation of the Experts Advisory Panel of the Nigeria Natural Resource Charter paid him a courtesy visit on Wednesday in Abuja, according to a statement by his media office. He said, “PIGB is on the front burner. We intend to start the process soon. We’re hoping that by June, we’ll be able to see the light at the end of the tunnel.” Meanwhile, the House Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission on Wednesday laid its report on the proposed budget of the NDDC for 2020. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     