’Tosin Oluwalowo Chairman of the League Management Company, Shehu Dikko, says FIFPro does not have powers to place transfer bans on clubs, after they banned FC IfeanyiUbah and four other African clubs over unpaid wages. Speaking with our correspondent on Thursday, Dikko said FIFPro’s role was only advisory, as they could only advise players not to sign for clubs known not to pay salaries. “FIFPro has no right to place a transfer ban, they only advise players to be careful not to sign for certain clubs because from our records, from the complaints we have seen, they are prone to owing players. This is the first time we are having a Nigerian team on the list, even big clubs like Club African of Tunisia also have their names on the list,” Dikko told The PUNCH. He also said league body already have a framework in place to ensure that clubs who fail to pay players their wages are sanctioned, while players can also leave defaulting clubs. According to him, with the intervention of FIFPro, the LMC would investigate circumstances surrounding issues in IfeanyiUbah, with a view of ascertaining if the club are truly defaulting in payment of wages. “We have a process, that a player has to report to us that he is being owed before we can look into it. Under the rules, a player can terminate his contract if he is being owed for 30 days and we receive a notice that he has not been paid. We just issued a ban on Heartland because they failed in their obligation to certain players, so, we are always ready to protect players interest, once we get the right channel. “Under our rule, a club is not registered to play in the next season without attestation from the existing players. For example, for next season, the current players of a team must sign that they are not being owed before we register them. And by our records, all the players have signed that they are not being owed. “We are not taking it lightly and our compliance team will go to the club and have a look at what is going on there and then we will take necessary steps. “As at our last meeting with the clubs, we have decided to improve the process of attestation that henceforth, we are not going to accept attestation only from the players and the clubs to sign, we need to see the physical payment vouchers or the bank transfer which the player has received, that is the new rule as from next season,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    