FRIDAY OLOKOR The people of Southern Kaduna in Kaduna State are studying the Western Nigeria Security Network, also known as Operation Amotekun, to develop their own community vigilante system to protect residents from suspected Fulani bandits. The President of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union and former member of the House of Representatives, Jonathan Asake, stated this during an interview with Sunday Punch. Asake said no fewer than 35 persons had been killed, 10 communities sacked and about 115 abducted during a serial attack by the bandits which commenced on January 6. According to him, while some of the survivors and victims were forced into internally displaced persons camps, 58 of them had been kidnapped. He also said 40 persons were abducted in Rumana Gbagyi, 15 in Rumana Hausa while a pastor of Evangelical Church Winning All was kidnapped along with five of his members in the same manner four Catholic seminarians were abducted. READ ALSO: Health officials put China returnees under surveillance Asake stated, “Currently, several communities in Chikun Local Government Area have been sacked into IDP camps. For instance, the communities that have been sacked just this January in Chikun LGA alone include Badna, Zankoro, Hayin Damisa, Unguwan Badole, Badimi, Kuderi and Unguwan Doma, while in Birnin Gwari LGA we have Rumana Gbagyi, Rumana Hausa and Malomo. These are all native Gbagyi communities and are essentially Christian villages. “At least 35 persons have been killed in a siege that started on January 6. In just three days, all these communities were sacked and 58 persons were kidnapped in one fell swoop. Forty were abducted in Rumana Gbagyi and 15 Rumana Hausa, not to mention the ECWA pastor that was kidnapped along with five of his members, and up till today, nothing has been heard of them the same manner the four Catholic seminarians were abducted.” He added, “As a matter of fact, the idea of Amotekun by the South West governors is the best thing to ever happen in tackling the security challenges that has plagued our nation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com