Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said he has forgiven his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun and his supporters for unleashing violence during a visit of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to the state last year. On February 11, 2019, Amosun’s loyalists, who were members of the Allied People’s Movement, allegedly pelted Buhari and other leaders of the All Progressives Congress with stones. Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, in a statement on Wednesday, said, “The governor, during the State Executive Council meeting held in his office on Tuesday, went down memory lane over the violence where the President was almost pelted with stones by some aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress. “Buhari and some other leaders of the APC, including the national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole; former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu; and former governor of Osun State and Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, among others (were almost stoned).” He said the incident happened when the party’s flag was being handed over to him by chieftains of the party including Buhari. Abiodun was quoted as saying, “I have said oftentimes that I do not bear grudges against anybody. “So, for all those who fought us, stoned us, intimidated us, harassed us, beat us; they all had their part to play so that the scripture could be fulfilled. Accordingly, we have forgiven them; more importantly, God has crowned us with victory.” READ ALSO: Ogun, Ekiti excos approve Amotekun bill proposal He added that the level of humility of his team in the midst of the “ugly” smear campaign played a huge role in the victory recorded at the polls. Abiodun further said, “I think one of the ways that we can appreciate God for this grace that He has given unto us is by performing. The people of the state have entrusted us with this mandate – that date, February 11, 2019, for me, marked the turning point in the process of us getting to this seat. It was a defining moment.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 