As a kid, did you play street football? I played lot of street football as a kid. I love football so much and I played as No 9. It is a position I enjoyed playing. There are still scars all over my legs; they were injuries I sustained when I was played football. Those scars kept reminding me of my time playing football as a kid. And I also played football for my secondary school. Are there medals to show for your participations? Unfortunately, there are no medals. Will you stop your children from playing football? I will never rebuke my children from playing football. If they want to play football, I will allow them to do that because nobody disturbed me when I was growing up, so I won’t disturb any child. The issue with my parent was that, for as long as you do your duties they won’t stop you from doing whatever you choose to do. I remembered my father even gave me money to rent bicycle to learn how to ride it. He gave money to an uncle to take me out and teach me how to ride bicycle and we rented the bicycle which I rode all day. And we would always rent bicycle for him to teach me how to ride. So, my parents don’t belong to class of some parents that would stop their children from doing what they enjoy doing. Players tend to play football for money and not for the passion. How do you see that affecting our football? The only problem I think we have as related to Nigerian footballers is that they are not properly motivated. These players need to be motivated and encouraged and they will stay around. They don’t want to stay around because there is no money, but if there is money they will stay. The players are playing on a rough field and trying to survive, when they see a better offer from Europe they will go. They want to play football and at the same time they want to make money too. They can’t just continue to play football and not make money like their colleagues who are in Europe; it is discouraging so you cannot blame the players for wanting to move to greener pastures. Let them treat them well and be encouraged, you will see that they will stay in the country. Do you watch Nigerian League? Of course I do. I tried to watch them once in a while especially when they have competitions that are in the final stage. Which football club do you support? I am a big fan of Chelsea football club. How long have been supporting the club? My father was a fan of Chelsea and I picked it up from him. How old were you then? I really can’t remember but I know that it was the moment I recognised football. Chelsea lost 3-0 to Bayern Munich at the Stamford in the UCL, what was going through your mind while watching the game? I didn’t eat that night. It was so sad losing that way and that’s all I want to say on the matter because it was so painful. Do you think Chelsea can overturn the result when they travel to Allianz Arena? I hope they will be able to do that. The margin is too wide and to make matter worse, it happened at the Stamford Bridge. It’s not going to be easy but I want to stay positive because anything is possible. Do you think Frank Lampard is good enough to continue to manage the club? Lampard is a young coach and that’s where the problem is. He is too young a coach to handle Chelsea. I do not doubt his prowess but I doubt the fact that he can get results with the young players at his disposal, who also don’t have enough experience. We all saw what Olivier Giroud did when he was brought on, his experience and professionalism came into play. Tammy Abraham is good but he is young to lead the attack. Aside football which other sports do you follow? When I was in school, I was a long jumper and I also did long distance race. Do you still play football or exercise? I still play football in my compound but I don’t run around. Is your wife supportive of you playing football? She is never worried of me picking up injuries. She is very supportive either at home or anywhere. The debate of who is a better player between Messi and Ronaldo is something that we can’t ignore. What’s your take on the matter? It is very difficult picking who is better between these two guys. But what I will tell the readers is, there are some things that Lionel Messi can do that Cristaiano Ronaldo cannot do and there are also some things that Ronaldo can do that Messi would not try. Let’s just give it to the two of them and assume there case is like having two kings in a palace. Even after they retire we will continue to talk about them because people like these two come once in a while. You don’t get to see them regularly. We’ve had Pele, Maradona, Thunder Balogun and Ronaldinho in the past. Which Nigeria match will you forever cherish? The Atlanta ’96 when Nigeria won Gold medal was the best of Nigeria football moment for me. What’s your take on the myth that Nigeria was defeated 99-1 by India? I wasn’t around that time and I don’t want to talk about it or ask those that were around because I didn’t believe. (Laughs) With your passion for sports, would you consider setting up a football academy? No, I would rather set up theatre academy. How do you relax when you are not on set? I stay at home and play with my children. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 