Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr I have spent the major part of my adulthood, as a key mouthpiece, for the tech ecosystem, via various platforms that I happen to be a part of. What has driven me, to have stayed on course, this long is, the fact that, as someone, who is passionate, about technology, I clear about the fact that it has the potentials, to help transform Nigeria, to the kind of country that, some of us truly desire. I am getting increasingly tired of living in a country that possesses so, much human potential yet it is termed the poverty capital of the world. It is too bad that as a country, we usually take one step forward and jump 20 steps backwards. How can we keep going around in circles and hope to develop, especially in the game of technology that changes after every six months, at the very least? The Lagos State Government decided to implement an old traffic law to keep bikes off the roads and gave only a few days’ notice. Now, what happens to thousands of people who would lose their means of livelihood? How about start-ups that have invested in commercial bikes and are already bringing some sanity into that space? They are now wondering what next to do. These are investors, who have decided to pitch their investment tent in ‘the Giant of Africa’, which Ghana has overtaken in attracting foreign direct investments. They will most likely be regretting their choices and wondering, how they can make a quick exit from all this. Indirect effects of the ban or restrictions, such as an increase in crime and other social vices are also staring us in the face. Today’s piece is just to let policymakers understand that every single move or decision they make, has far-reaching effects and consequences on our national existence. We should not be seen to be solving one problem and at the same time, creating other ones with that solution. Every little detail must be considered when decisions are taken. Two things worry me the most about this ban. First is the fact that a lot of people have lost their means of livelihood, and I can’t see a tenable alternative for them and secondly, it is bad news for the ecosystem, which I represent. Why would an investor from Silicon Valley, London or Berlin, put money in another edtech, or, agrictech start-up in Nigeria, when he has no guarantee that six months later, some government officials, for some reason or would not enact and enforce laws that will put their investments in jeopardy? We are talking about an industry, where players have already created thousands of jobs and invested millions of dollars. Should the ideal thing not be to work with them, to find ways to use technology to further bring sanity to the industry? Can the government come up with the statistics of accidents caused by these start-up riders, compared to those caused by the regular ‘Okadas’, over a particular period of time? I saw one government infographic, which mentioned that Okada is Okada, no matter what name it is called. Well, I disagree. For example, whoever came up with that statement can as well say that a taxi is a taxi, but anyone who uses any of the popular ride-hailing platforms, know that it is not true. Here is an excerpt of a report by The Punch, a few days ago, quoting the CEO of Gokada, Fahim Saleh, as saying, “Since we re-launched in September 2019, we had about 250 accidents, most minor out of the 350,000, or, so rides that we have given. I will tell you our riders are safe. We can show you the records, to show our riders are safe and every day, our priority is not, how much we are earning, but how do we make our services safer.” This is what the Max.ng team, had to say, as well, “We have completed over two million trips, with less than 100 incidents, out of which, less than seven, were serious, requiring a hospital visit. To date, our fatality rate has remained at zero per cent.” Are these statements wrong? The only way for that to be clear is if the government came out with figures to show otherwise. It is only fair to say that start-ups operating in the bike-hailing space have brought considerable sanity to the sector. There is no way anyone can compare most of them to the regular Okada guys. For folks like us, who rely heavily on data  in our decision-making process, it will be nice for the government to supply figures of the accidents caused by each of the new start-ups that have built platforms, created an on-boarding process and invested money in training their riders. I have friends, colleagues, start-ups, developers, freelancers and many regular Nigerians, who depend on the bike riding services, to move around to earn a living. It is sad to listen to a commissioner telling people who are already struggling to survive to use a ride-hailing service to their bus stops before catching a bus. This is a country with high unemployment and under-employment rates, weak purchasing power and currently regarded as the poverty capital of the world. The Lagos State Government needs to engage more. There is a difference between a start-up with a bike hailing platform, who has a process and somebody who is answerable to none and is monitored by no one. I bet that if  the government aggregates all the data on these platforms that have completed millions of trips, it will help it to make more intelligent decisions. Right now, a lot of Nigerians, including me, are not convinced with the ban or restrictions, especially, when we still see Danfos, most of whose drivers are reckless and vehicles poorly maintained, still plying our roads. Aside from the wave of fatal accidents from riding bikes that the Lagos State Government gave as the reason for enforcing the 2012 law, at this time is the issue of security, where it is bandied that bike riders of foreign nationalities are the ones that have flooded the industry and using bikes to perpetrate crime. My question is, what is the immigration doing by allowing the influx of foreign nationals? So yes, we have a problem of identity. Why can we not leverage technology to fix it? What is the National Identity Management Commission and Lagos State Residents Registration Agency doing about identity management? Should ordinary Nigerians suffer because the government cannot police the borders or identify its citizens properly? Nigerian leaders as a whole can leverage technology and the amazing resources available in the tech ecosystem to solve huge problems confronting us but are they willing to invest and go through the process?  CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   