would you say that the town hall meeting recently held in Lagos and coordinated by your office was a success? Yes. But before we go on let me first correct one impression about the town hall meeting. I think there has been a lot of misconceptions about what went on there. The town hall meeting in the actual sense of it, was just a platform for the government to relate with the governed. Edo State has certain peculiarities, we are scattered all over the world. I mean all over the world you find people from Edo, our people travel a lot. Some of us have even adopted those places as our homes. So, when you talk about governance in Edo State, the main responsibility of government is the welfare and security of our people and that responsibility falls on the head of this government now which Governor Godwin Obaseki heads. I have heard people asked why the town hall meeting held in Lagos and not in Benin? The governor is the governor of all indigenes of Edo State, wherever they find themselves. If the Edo people in Lagos decide they want to meet their governor, it’s their right. Everything doesn’t have to come from the government side alone. The essence of good governance is being able to respond to situations as they arise, being transparent and being accountable. So, if those in Lagos say they want to meet their governor, they want to interface with him it’s their right and it is our own responsibility to make sure that happens. Some still wonder why you left Edo and held a town hall meeting in Lagos… My answer is we can have a town hall meeting in Lagos, Abuja, Canada, London and other parts of the world. So how would you describe the meeting? Communication is a two-way thing.  If you were there you would have seen the level of engagement. Anybody who was there or watched it on television will know that it was a huge success. The dialogue was transparent, nothing was doctored. People asked questions and the governor answered them without going through any form of protocol. But there were protests outside the venue of the meeting? That was also good because we did not expect everybody to be our supporter. No matter how good we are there will always be some people who would always have contrary views. So, they also have the right to do what they did. As long as it is peaceful, it’s fine. Edo State is for all of us, people should feel free to say what they don’t like about us. It’s the people’s government. It’s not only for the people at Osadebe Avenue. It’s for all of us. So, when they ask questions, it is our responsibility to provide answers. The difference between us and the advanced countries is the peaceful way they conduct themselves. As public servants, we don’t really own our lives. So, protest is good but it should not be violent. If you look at the politics in Edo State today would you say the government is getting it right? I think for the first time in the state we hear an average man on the street saying we don’t want this and we don’t want that. They also say they don’t want godfather; they want to eradicate that aspect of our political history, they want to stop it and all that.  And then suddenly, it looks as if we are dancing towards that again. The interesting thing about Edo is that we are very exposed. If you do anything now in the next few minutes it’s already online and all over the world and everybody will be calling, asking you what happened here. So what is happening now is not out of order. For me, we are getting it right because we are engaging the common man on the street. Don’t you think the intra-party crisis within the APC is a distraction for the government? I think the governor was very clear when he came on board. He said he was going to try his best to make sure that what goes on in politics does not affect governance. That was why he said that all party matters be handled by the party secretariat and let the government administrators be busy with implementing the plans, policies and even monitoring what we are doing just to ensure that we get the result we set out to achieve. For me I will always preach development. If you ask me whether this crisis is helping, I will tell you it’s not helping, but we are  managing it. How? We are managing it because it doesn’t stop me from getting up in the morning, going to work and making sure my job is done correctly. Why give a dog a bad name because you want to hang it? You don’t do that. We have 192 wards in Edo state. There is no one that does not have a project or a program going on there right now. It has never happened before and this is why people like us came. We followed this campaign throughout. I am one of those who don’t like to stay in Benin but I am in Benin now and I like it. This crisis has been on ground for long and the election is very close now. Don’t you fear this might affect the second term bid of the governor? We don’t fear anything. We are fearless because we know we are working. We are fearless because we know we made promises and we are delivering one of our promises so why should we be afraid? Have we not seen this before? It has happened before. There were those we thought they could never go down but they are there now. I don’t want to take side, I wasn’t raised to disrespect elders but I think at some point our elders really need to sit down and say ‘look, we have a strong generation coming behind us who knows what is happening. Who knows the difference between right and wrong so they can’t be deceived again.’ Almost every Edo residents and indigenes has online presence and we hear what people are saying. Many are thanking the governor for doing so many positive things. My governor has not relented in doing anything he has promised to do, so why should I be afraid? We need to talk to ourselves sometimes and ask questions. The governor is working why are you busy running all over the place? It is only in Nigeria that we find something like this. In another country a top performing governor like Obaseki will not need to face something like intra-party issue but a lot of people have selfish reasons and I hope we are looking seriously at what is happening so that at the end of the day, we can tell whether this is good for our state or not. There will always be differences but you need to smack a child with love. When we go wrong tell us we have gone wrong and give us the opportunity to correct the wrong. But where you haven’t seen a wrong, don’t make up one. I think it’s one family and we should be able to talk through our differences and forge ahead. If you say it is one family why can’t the two actors, Obaseki and Oshiomhole sit on the same table and resolve this matter once and for all? I think the media also has a role to play here. You need to ask what the issues are. I was one of those people who followed the campaign from outside Nigeria and I said we got it right this time around. We came to Nigeria because we heard the message of our governor then. He was projecting someone we thought would take us to where we were going and we followed closely and came back to contribute our quota. I think one of the greatest successes of our former governor and APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole is the fact that he brought Governor Godwin Obaseki to be the one to take Edo to that next level. He remains one of the success stories of the former governor. For me, that is the peak of all his glories. So, sometimes when I look at the whole thing I feel we are becoming myopic because we are not seeing more than just a few meters beyond us. To me I think they can sit down and resolve this if they wanted to and I don’t think that resistance is from our part but we will get there. You said resistance is not from your part… Yes it’s not from our part. We are willing and we are open, everybody is open. They say he (Obaseki) is not engaging one set of the people but when I look at it I found out that it is the same people that I am still seeing. So, who are the people that have been disengaged?  The governor always looks beyond party politics because he is affecting the lives of all Edo people.  Of course people always resist change until they get more understanding of what is actually happening. How are you applying these processes in resolving the political crisis in the state? I think we need to be careful now so that we don’t confuse a common good with personal interest. When I listen to a lot of people what they say to me is, he (Obaseki) says he will retire old politicians and that he is no longer engaging the people that were there before. But when I look at the whole thing I found that we haven’t changed any of the contractors that have been with the government (before we came). So, how do you engage the politicians? How do you get them involved in what you are doing by engaging directly with the grassroots? I don’t understand what they mean that a certain group of people are not happy because they are not being carried along. True governance is touching the lives of every individual irrespective of their background. So, to me, I haven’t seen anything that we are doing wrong. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  