Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said his administration is planning to expand the state capital, Benin City, by developing a new city in the Iyekogba-axis of the state, located in Ward 2 of Oredo Local Government Area. Obaseki was quoted to have said this after inspecting the newly constructed road connecting Irhirhi, Aruogba, Okhoromi, Obazagbon, Obagienevbosa, Ogheghe and Ogbekpen communities in Oredo LGA. In a statement by the state government, the governor was said to have expressed satisfaction with the standard of the road, adding that the project became a priority following plans to expand Benin City. He noted that an office of the Ministry of Infrastructure would be located in the area to ensure proper town planning. “We have acquired 720 hectares of land off this road. We want to build a new city here. But if you sell all the land in this area without proper layout, we will not have where to build more infrastructure. If we plan this community, for years to come, your children will benefit from it,” the governor said. He explained that he had mandated the commissioner for infrastructure to re-establish the Right of Way in the area as the road would be expanded in the future to ensure free flow of traffic. “All those building on our right of way should be given notice, because in the nearest future, we will expand this road,” he said. Obaseki stated that the contractor handling the road project would soon commence covering of the side drains. The Councillor, Ward 2, Oredo LGA, Mr Harrison Izekor, commended the governor for the road project, noting that the road had opened up the communities to economic development. Izekor was quoted as saying the construction of the road created more jobs as over 1,500 businesses were established in the area. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    