Dr Olaitan Abimbola is one of the medical practitioners risking their lives to treat Lassa fever patients at Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu, Ogun State. Abimbola, who is in the hospital’s Department of Internal Medicine, tells DAUD OLATUNJI how she has been doing her job in the face of dangers What has been your experience treating Lassa fever in Ogun State? It has been very challenging. How many cases have you handled so far? There have been many suspected cases, but I have handled only two confirmed cases. What are the risks involved as it can be transmitted through direct body fluids of patients? The risks are reduced if protective equipment is used and standard infection prevention practice is adhered to. Aren’t you sometimes scared? Yes, I am but I do it because I know that the patient needs help. What about your husband and children, are they sometimes apprehensive because of the job you do as they can get it from you if you contract it from a patient? My husband and children have been educated about it and I also follow the standard outline for protecting myself. What is the routine you go through in treating Lassa fever patients and others with contagious deadly diseases? I observe regular handwashing technique. I also wear protective gear like gloves, gown, face mask, face shield or goggles, hair bonnet, boots, which are all waterproof. They are burnt after being used for one patient. Was there any time you were afraid that you might have contracted a serious disease from a patient in the course of your job? No, I just handle them carefully. What has been your personal experience treating Lassa fever? The confirmed cases I handled presented late when complications had set in.  We tried our best with the resources provided by the state but we lost them. One of them was pregnant and had spontaneous abortion. They both died of complication. How do you handle seeing your patients in pain? I empathise with them and help with different methods of providing relief to them. When you lost the patients to Lassa fever, how did you feel? I felt very bad and depressed. Why are Nigerians prone to it? On January 12, 1969, an American missionary nurse in Lassa village in northeastern Nigeria developed fever and it progressively worsened. She was airlifted to Evangeline Hospital in Jos, northern Nigeria on January 25.  She was cared for by two American nurses but died on January 26. One of the nurses also got sick and died 11 days later.  The other nurse also became sick and was evacuated by air to the USA, where she was treated and she recovered. A virus was isolated from her and it was named Lassa. It was first detected in Lassa village in Borno State, Nigeria. It is an arenavirus, spread to humans through urine and faeces from chronically infected rodents. We are talking about a multimammate rat called Mastomys. It can be got also be contracted by eating those rats. It is endemic in central and southern Nigeria. Its incidence is highest during the dry season and its symptoms include high grade fever, headache, arthralgia, myalgia, chest pain, weakness, dizziness, cough, sore throat, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, conjunctivitis, bleeding, reduced urine output, convulsion and even coma. It is found in areas where these rats are common like Ondo, Edo in Nigeria but also found in countries in West Africa. Some people said to have been killed by Lassa fever were pregnant women, why? Are pregnant women prone to it? It is not particularly common in pregnancy. But if a pregnant woman gets infected, the severity is more and prognosis is poor. Can someone who suspects they have contracted it just decide to quarantine themselves? Quarantine or isolation is meant for those exposed to patients with Lassa fever. It is to monitor them for signs and symptoms of the disease within the incubation period of the disease which is five to 16 days. It is also to limit the exposure to other people. At end of this period if they show no significant sign of having the disease, they can be free to move around. Doctors will select the people to be isolated and monitored. Doctors who contract the virus while treating patients should not be called careless because I’m sure no one wants to die from caring for others. What do doctors need as tools in the treatment of Lassa fever patients? There are protective equipment to be used by anyone caring for Lassa fever patients.  They include waterproof gowns, goggles, hair bonnets, face masks, gloves, boots, boot covers, hand sanitiser and chlorinated water to wash hands. All the equipment should be used per patient and burnt after use. What are the differences between Lassa fever and Dengue fever? I have talked about Lassa fever earlier. Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne viral infection found in Africa, Asia-Pacific, and America. Its incubation period is shorter – three to eight days. Their symptoms are similar and treatment is mainly through fluid. No antiviral is used. Lassa fever treatment includes giving fluids, antibiotics and antiviral agents. There are fears over coronavirus getting into Nigeria, how can we prevent that? It can be prevented by screening everyone coming from affected countries through our ports, airports and borders. Will you be ready if called upon to treat patients of coronavirus too should there be any eventuality? Yes, but l pray that it should not get here. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com