Countries must creatively complement the use of fossil fuels and renewable energy in the interim pending when renewable energy can stand alone as a major source of energy globally, the Chief Executive Officer, Lekoil, Lekan Akinyanmi, has said. Akinyanmi stated this on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting at Davos, according to a statement. He said, “It is possible to keep an oil and gas company sustainable.  The first thing we have got to do is to stop denying that there is an issue. Indeed, there is an issue. “The change over from fossil fuel to alternative energy or cleaner fuels is a multi-decade or probably multi-century thing. The fossil fuel industry will still be relevant. I think probably for the rest of our life time. What we need to do is to figure out ways to be responsible in the fossil fuel production and consumption process. According to him, historically, a lot of fossil fuel companies have produced oil and flared the gas but it is actually the gas that is more efficient. “Gas is friendlier to the environment, so we need to shift our attention there. From our perspective as Lekoil, one of the things that helps us is that a good chunk of our portfolio is actually gas; so we are actually well on our way,” he said. According to the statement, energy analysts suggest that the renewable energy market will grow at a cumulative average growth rate of 7.6 per cent between 2020 and 2025 to reach 3,812 gigawatts by 2025. “We actually do need an energy mix to solve the world’s energy problems. In the interim, there will be discontinuities; the pendulum will swing both ways. But it is shortsighted to just ignore the fossil fuel industry and move to the renewable energy industry or vice versa. We need a portfolio that mixes both energy sources,” Akinyanmi said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 