Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja A worker at of the Federal Ministry of Health, Mr Ibrahim Nda, has been arraigned before Justice M. T. Aliyu of the Kaduna State High Court by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission for allegedly altering an official document to falsify his age. The ICPC said in a statement on Thursday by its spokesperson, Rasheedat Okoduwa, that Nda, a chief administrative officer attached to the Nurse Tutors Programme of the Ministry of Health in Kaduna, conferred an unfair advantage on himself by his action. The statement read in part, “Nda was brought before the court on three counts bordering on forgery and conferring unfair advantage on himself by altering his date of birth in his personal file with No. P21966 from 1957 to 1967, and supporting that alteration with a sworn declaration of age. “According to the charge, the intent was for him to extend his service year with the ministry from 2017 to 2027, thereby committing an offence of forgery contrary to Section 363 and punishable under Section 364 of the Penal Code, Cap 110, Laws of Kaduna State, 1991.” The ICPC said the offence of conferring an unfair advantage on himself was contrary to Section 19 of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000, and punishable under the same section. It added, “When the charge was read to the defendant, he pleaded not guilty. His counsel, A. I. Zubairu, reminded the court of their earlier application for bail before the court, which was not opposed by the prosecuting counsel, Ahmad Wada. “The court thereafter admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N1m with one surety in like sum, who must be a blood relative and a public officer not below the rank of an assistant director. The case was adjourned to April 30, 2020, for trial.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 