Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Nigeria Immigration Service on Thursday said three persons had been arrested for faking the newly introduced visa-on-arrival facility. The suspects, whose identities were not revealed, were arrested at an undisclosed airport with the forged visas. The VoA policy kicked off on January 1 following the announcement by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), that Africans would also enjoy the facility with effect from January 2020. But speaking on a Channels Television programme monitored by our correspondent on Thursday, the Comptroller-General of Immigration Service, Muhammad Babandede, explained that the forged visas were rejected by the system at the airport, adding that the suspects were promptly taken into custody. The CG said, “We have arrested three persons this year with fake visa-on-arrival. It means there is somebody who scanned a fake document; the person didn’t follow the process. When you come to the airport, and you put it in the system, it would reject it.” Babandede further said that the new visa policy was based on national security, transparency and reciprocity parameters, noting that the service issued 263,000 VoAs to businessmen and investors in 2019. The CG argued that obtaining a visa at the airport was the same as applying for it at the embassy, adding that the NIS wished to limit the interaction between its personnel and visa applicants as much as possible. He said, “When we talk of transparency, we have reduced the possibility of human factor or officers’ contact with visa applicants so they don’t ask for money. We are concerned about reciprocity, security and transparency. “Our officers are used to visa-on-arrival, we have issued over 263,000 in 2019 alone. If you look at the segregation, in each quarter, the increase is almost 50 per cent in 2019.” When asked what the government was doing about the visa restriction imposed on Nigeria by the United States, the CG declined comment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com