Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja The Kogi State Police Command has arrested a suspected fake soldier, Monday Shaibu, for allegedly using military uniform to rob motorists and travellers in the Kogi East area. Shaibu was paraded alongside 11 other suspects for offences ranging from armed robbery and kidnapping to culpable homicide and car snatching. The Kogi State Commissioner of Police, Ede Ekpeji, said on January 25, 2020, police operatives and vigilantes while on routine patrol intercepted and arrested Shaibu with a Bajaj motorcycle. During interrogation, Ekpeji said the suspect could not give any satisfactory account of himself and the motorcycle. The CP noted that the suspect conspired with one Peter and robbed the owner of the motorcycle after claiming to be a military officer at Ayingba. Ekpeji added that three other suspects – Ahmed Abah, Yauza Adamu, and Idris Sani – were arrested on January 28, 2020 for robbery. He said, “Operatives attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad while on a routine patrol intercepted a Toyota Highlander 2009 with number plate, Lagos SMK 963 FZ, with three occupants, namely Ahmed Abah, Yauza Adamu, and Idris Sani. During interrogation, the suspects confessed to have stolen the vehicle from Lagos.” The police also paraded the trio of Mohammed Yahaya, Idris Bello and Nafiu Bello for alleged robbery and car snatching. Ekpeji, while giving a brief on the suspects, said on December 18, 2019, the three men, who had been terrorising Lokoja and its environs, snatched at gunpoint one unregistered Toyota Sienna and other valuables along Old Stadium Road, Lokoja. He said Bello, after he was arrested, led detectives to his house where one locally-made revolver pistol with live ammunition was recovered. Other suspects paraded by the police included Mustapha Onuh, Abubakar Ali, Ibrahim Barto, Bello Suleiman, Aliyu Ibrahim and Yakubu Dunca. “Our policing style has provided avenues for effective collaboration with other critical stakeholders by giving them access to shared information and intelligence that will assist in crime control and management,” the CP added. Items recovered from the suspects included three motorcycles, one Toyota Corolla, one Siena, one Toyota Highlander, three pistols, cartridges, one decoder and five wristwatches. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com