Seun Adesoye The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has told members of the research group of the Lagos State Traditional Medicine Board to embark on an advocacy that will focus on the conservation and preservation of the state’s biodiversity. Abayomi, according to a statement on Monday, stated this at a recent meeting with a committee set up to review the activities of traditional medical practitioners in Lagos State with a view to identifying areas where they needed the intervention of the Lagos State Ministry of Health. Abayomi said, “The call to preserve the environment is one that affects everyone but it affects traditional medicine practitioners more because some plants that are needed do not have the micro environment to grow. This is particularly why there is a great need to give whatever it takes to restore biodiversity at all costs. “Members of the research group need to work hand-in-hand with the Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency of the ministry to identify grey areas that need attention while conducting clinical studies or trials in the alternative medicine way. “Apart from domesticating your own clinical studies, you must also set for yourself a standard operating procedure which has international benchmarks with laid down ethics guiding your conduct and operations.” The Chairman of the Traditional Medicine Board, Prof. Adebukunola Oshintelu, said the board was planning to engage more institutions for a robust research group. He said, “This task that has been given to us is very Herculean but with the crop of professionals we have, noticeable developments will be seen in this administration of the Traditional Medicine Board. As part of our efforts, we will intensify our clampdown on quacks amongst traditional medicine practitioners operating in the state so they do not thwart our progress.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 