The total electricity fed into the national grid from 27 power stations has not seen a significant increase, compared to the pre-privatisation levels. Available power generation has continued to hover around 3,000 megawatts and 4,000MW in recent months. The Nigerian Electricity System Operator put the nation’s installed generation capacity at 12,910.40MW; available capacity at 7,652.60MW; transmission wheeling capacity at 8,100MW; and the peak generation ever attained at 5,375MW. Total power generation in the country stood at 4,030.6MW as of 6am on February 6, 2020, according to the system operator. The Federal Government handed over to private investors on November 1, 2013 the generation and distribution companies carved out of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria. But the investors are still grappling with the old problems in the sector, including gas supply shortages, limited distribution networks, limited transmission line capacity, huge metering gap and high losses. The core investors were expected to invest massively in the power firms to upgrade their distribution infrastructure, provide meters to customers and reduce the Aggregate Technical, Commercial and Collection losses. The government has continued to intervene in the sector in a bid to resolve the crisis plaguing the Nigerian electricity supply chain but not much has been achieved. In November 2014, the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, the Ministry of Power and the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission signed a Memorandum of Understanding on a stabilisation fund, with N213bn earmarked for disbursement through deposit money banks to power firms. The Federal Government, in March 2017, launched the Power Sector Recovery Programme with the major highlight being a CBN-funded payment assurance guarantee for two years to the tune of N701bn. The money expected to cover the shortfall of Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc was targeted at Gencos and gas suppliers for power generated and future power generation. The government-owned NBET buys electricity in bulk from generation companies through Power Purchase Agreements and sells through vesting contracts to the Discos, which then supply it to the consumers. In August last year, it was reported that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) had approved the release of another N600bn intervention for the sector. NERC, in its latest quarterly report, said the financial viability of the Nigerian electricity supply industry remained a major challenge threatening its sustainability. It said, “The liquidity challenge is partly due to the non-implementation of cost-reflective tariffs, high technical and commercial losses exacerbated by energy theft and consumers’ apathy to payments under the widely prevailing practice of estimated billing. “The severity of the liquidity challenge in the Nigerian electricity supply industry was reflected in the less than 50 per cent settlement rate of the energy invoice issued by the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc and Market Operator to each of the Discos as well as the non-payment by the special and international customers.” The aggregate technical, commercial and collection losses for all the Discos averaged 44.5 per cent in the second quarter of 2019, compared to the expected industry average of 26 per cent, being the allowable ATC&C losses provided in the MYTO for 2019. The ATC&C losses of the industry are the combined index of losses due to technical, billing and collection inefficiencies in the industry. “The high ATC&C losses reflect low investments in distribution networks aggravated by the low level of metering of end-use customers, thus creating lingering liquidity challenge to the industry,” it added. Out of the 8,881,443 registered electricity customers, only 3,811,729 (42.92 per cent) had been metered as of the end of Q2 2019. The Bureau of Public Enterprises said in October 2018 that the review of the performance of the Discos would take place before December 2019. The Director-General, BPE, Mr Alex Okoh, said at the time that the five-year performance agreements for all the Discos, with the exception of Kaduna Disco, became effective on January 1, 2015 and the fifth year anniversary for final performance review would therefore be December 31, 2019. But nothing has been heard from the BPE as to whether a committee had been constituted for the review and when it would be completed. The Nigerian Economic Summit Group has advised the Federal Government to complete the power and energy sector deregulation process by opening up the transmission segment of the power value chain to private participation and investments. “In doing this, three criteria should be considered for willing and prospective investors – managerial experience, technical expertise and financial capabilities. These are key to the success of the power/energy sector reform road map in Nigeria,” the group said in its 2020 Macroeconomic Outlook. Last month, a report by a committee of the National Economic Council noted that the Federal Government had pumped N1.7tn of public funds into the privatised power sector in the last three years. The committee, chaired by the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir el-Rufai, was given the mandate to investigate the ownership structure of power distribution companies in the country. He told an expanded session of the NEC that after meeting for five times, the committee found that the problems of the power sector were enormous and required declaring a “national emergency” to find solutions. He said, “The problems in the power sector are many, capacity is one, perhaps. There are some that have shown lack of capacity; it is true but there are many that are fantastic. So, it is very difficult to pass a quick judgment. “There are other issues. The entire sector is broken. The tariff is an issue. The way the privatisation was done is an issue to many. What we have agreed on is that there are fundamental problems in the electricity supply industry. You cannot privatise an industry and then over three years since privatisation, you pump in N1.7tn of government into it. That is not privatisation.” “So, solutions must be found; those solutions are not going to be nice. They may be painful but the only way to solve the structural problems in the industry. It is to take some very difficult decisions.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 