Rasheed Bisiriyu and Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi Luxury automaker, Porsche, has added two distinctly sporty and high specification models to its mid-engine sports car range: the 718 Cayman GTS and the 718 Boxster. A report on the new models obtained from the Porsche’s website says the new models have been specially designed to offer driving pleasure. Although Stallion Autos, Porsche’s representative in Nigeria, has hinted about replicating the success story of the high-performance brand in Europe, America in the country this year, it could not be confirmed on if the two new vehicles would be coming anytime soon. Auto analysts say the new Porsche 718 GTS 4.0, which follows in the footsteps of the 718 Cayman GT4 and 718 Spyder, sees the entry-level sports car return to six-cylinder power. Auto Express says the GTS uses a mildly detuned version of the naturally aspirated 4.0-litre boxer engine fitted to the Cayman GT4. According to a report by autoblog.com, the 718 Cayman GTS 4.0 and the 718 Boxster GTS 4.0 will replace the existing four-cylinder-powered models, expected to retire at the end of the 2019 model year. Engine performance The 4.0-litre flat-six engine is said to have the capacity to deliver 394 horsepower and 309 pound-feet of torque. “Here, the engine makes 395bhp -19bhp less than the GT4 – and revs up to a 7,800rpm red line, piped to the rear of the car via a sport exhaust system. Both coupe and roadster feature a manual six-speed transmission as standard,” Auto Express explains. “The result is a 0-62mph time of 4.5 seconds for both the Cayman and Boxster GTS, and a 182mph top speed. That’s four tenths and 2mph quicker than the outgoing four-cylinder Cayman GTS,” it adds. According to reviewers, the new six-cylinder motor is slightly thirstier with Porsche claiming fuel consumption has dropped from 28.5mpg to 25.9mpg, while CO2 emissions are up 36g/km, to 246g/km. Porsche notes that engine aside, the rest of the GTS features are similar to those of the previous 718 Boxster and Cayman models with Porsche Active Suspension Management adaptive damping system controlling a suspension set-up that sits 20mm closer to the road than lesser variants. The automaker also says the drive is sent to the rear wheels through a mechanical limited slip differential, while active drivetrain mounts firmness to offer precision when cornering and comfort at a cruise. It adds that the GTS models ride on a set of 20-inch alloy wheels with 235mm-section tyres at the front and 265mm items at the back while the wheels house cross drilled discs gripped by red Porsche calipers, with ceramic composite discs available as an option. Auto Express says from the outside, GTS models are set apart from the rest of the Boxster and Cayman line-ups, courtesy of black accents for the spoiler lip, air intake and rear diffuser, while the head and tail lamps gain a smoked finish. It adds that there are optional highlight packages that allow buyers to finish the seat belts, rev counter, and decorative seams in either yellow or red. MSN Auto, in its review of the new GTS, says the versions give buyers the option of the six-cylinder engine in the 718 but with a more relaxed feel. Driving Porsche says the models will have exceptionally precise handling, agile steering and responsive cornering, adding that the chassis promises an exciting driving experience. “It combines dynamic handling with suspension comfort that is suitable for everyday use. Porsche Active Suspension Management is part of its standard equipment,” it adds. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  