Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command says it has impounded 188 motorcycles and 78 tricycles as well as arrested 40 persons for refusing to comply with the ban on motorcycles and tricycles in certain areas by the state government. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Sunday that the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, on Saturday, deployed Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers, State Traffic Officers, Area Traffic Officers, Divisional Traffic Officers, the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences and other police personnel to enforce the state road traffic laws that restricted motorcycles and tricycles from operating on certain routes in the state. He stated that Very Important Personality escort vehicles without number plates, vehicles with defaced and covered number plates and vehicles driving against the traffic were also impounded, adding that Odumosu urged Lagos residents to comply with the new directive. Elkana said, “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, had on February 1, 2020, deployed Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers, State Traffic Officers, Area Traffic Officers, Divisional Traffic Officers, Lagos State Task Force on Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences and other police officers across the state to fully enforce the provisions of the Road Traffic Laws, especially the ban on the use of motorcycles, popularly known as okada, and tricycles, also known as keke, in some local government areas and routes across the state. “The total ban as announced by the Lagos State Government took effect from 00.00 hours on February 1, 2020. Forty violators were arrested in different parts of the state and 188 motorcycles and 78 tricycles were impounded. The Commissioner of Police went around the state to monitor compliance and expressed his satisfaction with the level of compliance. He thanked the good people of Lagos State for their cooperation. “The CP personally arrested some motorcycle and tricycle operators seen contravening the traffic laws. Others arrested by the CP were VIP escort vehicles without number plates, vehicles with defaced and covered number plates and vehicles driving against the traffic. Twenty-two vehicles were impounded. “The CP reiterated the fact that no one was above the law and called on Lagos residents, irrespective of their social status, to support the police in their quest to provide a safe and secure state for everyone to live in and to carry out their lawful businesses.” Elkana added that the enforcement was a continuous exercise that would be done every day for 24 hours, adding that violators would be dealt with in accordance with the extant laws on traffic. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com