Oladimeji Ramon Justice Sybil Nwaka of the Lagos State High Court in Ikeja on Tuesday declined endorsing a “Plea and Sentence Agreement” in respect of the charges of involuntary manslaughter filed by the Lagos State Government against the Managing Director of Lekki Gardens Estate Limited, Mr Richard Nyong, and others. The charges stemmed from the killing of some persons when a six-storey building being constructed by Lekki Gardens Estate Limited collapsed on March 10, 2016. The Lagos State Government in July 2017 arraigned Nyong and others on six counts bordering on involuntary manslaughter and building without obtaining the permission and approval of the state. Charged along with Nyong were Lekki Gardens Estate Limited’s Executive Director, Mr Sola Olumofe; the firm’s contractor, Henry Taiwo; Omolabake Mortune, Omotilewa Oluwatosin Joseph, Lekki Gardens, Get Too Rich Investment Limited and HC Insight Solution Limited. At the resumed proceedings in the case on Tuesday, the prosecuting counsel for the state, Babajide Taiwo, told the judge that the parties had met and had agreed to an out-of-court settlement. “All the parties signed the amended charge and the plea and sentence agreement,” the state counsel said. The defence counsel – Bode Olanipekun (SAN), Ayomide Adebayo and Emmanuel Ihaoda – prayed the judge to endorse the out-of-court settlement agreement as the verdict of the court in the case. But the judge declined the prayer on the grounds that the families of the victims of the building collapse were not carried along. The judge said, “The amended charge is talking just about the failure to obtain building permits and other building approvals. The amended charge did not contain negligence, loss of lives and others. Many lives were lost, breadwinners of many families.” But Olanipekun, while explaining that the victims’ families were taken into account in the out-of-court settlement, said it was part of the agreement that each of five identified victims’ families would be paid N10m; while the Lagos State Government would be paid N100m. But the judge asked, “Are you saying you are paying more to the state government than the deceased’s families? Five families will get N50m while the state will get N100m?” Justice Nwaka also expressed reservation about the failure of the agreement to specify the names of the said families. “They could give the money to people who are not related to the deceased. I know government, yes, they are going to get the N100m, but I must identify the families. “And you want me to agree to this? I refuse, I am not satisfied, I hereby refuse the agreement,” the judge said. While directing the parties to “go and do your work,” the judge said the families must be traced and brought to court. She adjourned the matter till March 10. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 