Sola Shittu, Benin The Edo State Government, on Tuesday, dismissed the allegation that the state government was training militias at Okada, describing it as erroneous and unfounded lies. The state Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Mr Lawrence Okah, had made the accusation on Monday. Okah also said Governor Godwin Obaseki was responsible for the violent political atmosphere being experienced in the state, adding that the governor was creating crisis and maiming the APC leaders because of his desperate ambition for a second term. But the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, said the state government was pursuing a holistic strategy to ensure the security of lives and property in the state through the Public Works Volunteer (PUWOV) scheme. He said, “The report is erroneous and unfounded and is being spread by those with an intent to cause crisis and perpetuate violence in the state. It is a tactic of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his co-travellers in the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) to spread lies and half-truths to cause disaffection among the people.” The governor’s aide noted that those who label the PUWOV scheme a militia “do not mean well for Edo people as they are attempting to undermine government’s effort at grooming a community-led policing effort in the state.” Meanwhile, the state government, on Tuesday, said the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, and the Edo Peoples Movement were planning to sponsor protests across the state targeted at maligning and undermining the government. A statement by Osagie said the motive behind the plan was to “incite the public and cause disaffection in the state in order to slow down the rapid pace of development.” According to Osagie, Oshiomhole and his allies, having allegedly “failed in his inordinate ambition to impose himself as the godfather who makes all decisions, and losing grip of the APC structure in the state, have resorted to a final option of stage-managing protests and violent attacks, with the intention to cause crisis.” He added, “We are also aware that they are exploring other options of public disobedience and disturbances aimed at disrupting public peace and undermining the safety of Edo people.” Obaseki’s spokesman reiterated the state government’s call on the Presidency, the Inspector-General of Police and the National Security Adviser to “rein in” Oshiomhole and stop him from continuing with his “insidious” intentions so as to safeguard law-abiding residents and indigenes of Edo State. Efforts to get the reaction of the Oshiomhole-led faction on the allegation proved abortive as neither the co-convener of EPM, Mr Henry Idahagbon, nor Oshiomhole’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Simon Ebegbulem, picked calls made to them. They had also yet to respond to text messages sent to them as of press time. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com