Nigeria’s Aruna Quadri has teamed up with TTC RhönSprudel Maberzell Fulda, a top club in the German Bundesliga Table Tennis, and the world number 18 was unveiled on Monday by the management of the club led by its president, Stefan Frauenholz. The deal was brokered by WEOAllSports and Quadri is expected to join RhönSprudel Maberzell Fulda, based in central Germany, from next season in the elite division of the Bundesliga. RhönSprudel Maberzell Fulda president, Stefan Frauenholz, said the decision to sign Quadri was based on the team’s conviction that the Nigerian had a lot to offer based on his global exploits. “We are so lucky to sign Aruna Quadri because he is such a good player with excellent results. This is a family club and we believe his passion and interest tally with the ideals of the club. We are so happy to unveil him today and we hope he can bring his wealth of experience to help the team next season,” Frauenholz said. An excited Quadri said he was happy fulfilling his dream of playing in the German Bundesliga having spent over 10 years playing in the Portuguese league with several laurels to show for his efforts. “I am happy joining this team and I see that it is a family club with good ideal and for me I am going to give my 100 percent to the team. I look forward to having a good experience playing against the best in the Bundesliga to continue to improve my career,” the Rio 2016 Olympic quarterfinalist said. For the Chairman of WEOAllSports, Wahid Oshodi, the signing of Quadri by the German club is a confirmation of his hard work and commitment to his trade. “We are so excited that teams across Europe appreciate the progress Quadri has made over the years. He is now one of the best players in the world and we hope this move will give him the opportunity to improve his skills and continue to improve his global rating. The Bundesliga has the best players in the world and Quadri will feel at home there. Aruna Quadri is such an amazing player who is very popular among the Germans and we are not surprised that some of the best teams in the world wanted him. We hope this will serve as an inspiration for the younger Nigerian players,” Oshodi said.