Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi United States carrier, Delta Air Lines, says starting March 1, 2020, it will be committing $1bn over the next 10 years on its journey to mitigate all emissions from its global business. The airline said it would invest in driving innovation, advancing clean air travel technologies, accelerating the reduction of carbon emissions and waste, and establishing new projects to mitigate the balance of emissions. Delta’s Chief Executive Officer, Ed Bastian, said there was no substitute for the power that travel had to connect people, hence the need to make it sustainable. “As we connect customers around the globe, it is our responsibility to deliver on our promise to bring people together and ensure the utmost care for our environment,” he said. “The time is now to accelerate our investments and establish an ambitious commitment that the entire Delta team will deliver,” Bastian added. According to the airline, its approach to tackling carbon reduction and sustainability reflects the focus and rigour it has become known for, and that it used to build a financially secure airline. The airline said the announcement came as it paid $1.6bn in profit sharing to employees on Valentine’s Day, reflecting its long-standing approach to placing a high value on supporting all stakeholders and communities worldwide. Bastian said, “There’s no challenge we face that is in greater need of innovation than environmental sustainability, and we know there is no single solution. We are digging deep into the issues, examining every corner of our business, engaging experts, building coalitions, fostering partnerships and driving innovation. “We are on a journey, and though we don’t have all the answers today, we know that our scale, along with investments of time, talent and resources will bring meaningful impact to the planet and ensure the sustainability of our business for decades to come.” The airline noted that aviation industry had roughly two per cent of global carbon dioxide emissions, adding that Delta’s carbon footprint was its largest environmental impact, with 98 per cent of emissions coming from its aircraft. Delta said it would be focusing its efforts to become carbon neutral through reduction, carbon removal and stakeholder engagement. The airline said 2020 would see a number of milestones to demonstrate its progress and commitment to environmental sustainability. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com