Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja The World Health Organisation, United Nations Children’s Fund and The Lancet, have ranked Nigeria 174th out of 180 nations that are compared to determine their performance on child flourishing and survival. The report, which was released on Wednesday, said Nigeria ranked below Afghanistan, Sierra Leone and South-Sudan. It added that the ranking was done by a commission that was convened by the three global health agencies. It said, “In a landmark report released today (Wednesday) by a commission convened by the World Health Organisation, UNICEF and The Lancet, Nigeria ranked in the bottom 10 for performance on child flourishing. “The ranking is based on factors including measures of child survival and well-being such as health, education, nutrition, equity and income gaps. The report, ‘A Future for the World’s Children’, includes a new global index of 180 countries, comparing performance on child flourishing. Nigeria ranks 174 out of 180 countries, below Afghanistan, Sierra Leone and South Sudan.” UNICEF representative in Nigeria, Claes Johansson, noted in the report that Nigeria had a long way to go in the protection of children. He said, “This demonstrates how far we still need to go in Nigeria to ensure children can live healthy lives in an environment where they can thrive. We know that investing in the future of our children, giving them education and making sure they are healthy and receive the right nutrition, will work to provide a better future for everyone. We all have a responsibility to do everything we can to protect the health and future of every Nigerian child.” The index showed that children in Norway, the Republic of Korea, and The Netherlands had the best chance of survival and well-being, while children in Central African Republic, Chad, Somalia, Niger and Mali face the worst odds. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com