Chukwudi Akasike,  Port Harcourt Three persons were killed and several others injured when gunmen in military camouflage invaded Ke community in the Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State. The incident, which happened on Tuesday, created pandemonium in the area. PUNCH Metro gathered that two gunboats and some speedboats filled with the men had been sighted moving along the community’s waterways. It was gathered that the presence of the militants prevented people from coming out of their houses. The news of the killings was said to have spread shortly after they left. A chief in the community, Tugwell Aginah-Obu, urged the government to come to the aid of the community. “Right now, we do not know what to do. Our people cannot go to their houses again. People are hungry; we are stranded. “We don’t have any other route to come to the upland. No boat moves from Ke to Port Harcourt or elsewhere. No boat goes to Ke. We don’t know how to get in touch with other places, so that we can get reliefs,” he said. A source, however, linked the attack to oil bunkering in the area. The source told our correspondent that  an individual wanted to be in charge of the illicit business. “The people who attacked Ke disguised as task force officers. “But the attack is actually being used to silence any opposition,” the source added. Another indigene of the community, who identified himself only as Daibi, claimed that the gunmen were members of a military task force set up to fight oil bunkering in the area. A spokesman for the Joint Task Force, Operation Delta Safe, Major Eromosele Unuakhalu, confirmed the killings. “But I am still trying to confirm what really happened that led to the death of the three persons. I will get back to you after getting details,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  