Nike Popoola A non- profit organisation that helps African women through different entrepreneurial support programmes and ideas that create opportunities for a better community, Felix King Foundation, said it plans $10,000 support among others for female entrepreneurs. During a press briefing, the Convener, Start-ups Africa, Dr Felix King, said it planned to bring together over 1,000 female African start-up entrepreneurs, world class mentors, business experts, investors, government leaders and the media to support and encourage female-led businesses, during its upcoming conference for female entrepreneurs in Lagos. He said, “The event will feature training and certification session by TIUA School of business, Georgia, USA, top-tier speakers, master classes, expert discussions and business-pitching sessions where successful pitchers with revolutionary ideas will win up to $10,000 in seed funding investment.” One of the objectives of this programme, he said was to facilitate the growth and success of women-led businesses by providing them with pitching, training, mentorship and networking opportunities. He said the theme of the conference has the theme ‘Unleashing the power of female entrepreneurs.’ He said the conference was designed to unite female start-up entrepreneurs in all stages of business development, exposing them to topics and subject areas in branding and marketing; networking and business strategy, as well as organisational structure and access to market. He said participants would acquire new knowledge on actionable strategies to build and grow world-class businesses. “The pitching session which will be a live demonstration, will be business-styled reality event and produced for television in front of live audience, judges, investors and media,” he said. While speaking on its focus on women, he said, the societies were traditionally wired to put women at a disadvantage. Women, he observed, were the most vulnerable in most situations that portend heavy risk to humanity. King said it was on record that women form about 90 per cent of the victims of social vices such as sex-slavery, forced migration, prostitution among others. He said, “We believe that the more women are empowered, the faster the pace of development in the community. And I see unlimited frontiers just waiting to be explored by these hard working and tenacious women.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com