Rasheed Bisiriyu Airline operators, especially in Europe and the United States, are beginning to nurse the fear that fliers seeking alternative transportation modes may increase considerably due to their concern for the environment. This follows reports of rising emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide from commercial flights. Environmental crusader, Greta Thunberg, has been vocal about combating climate change. He says this may have played a role in a recent four per cent drop in the number of commercial passengers flying in Sweden, where the term “flygskam,” or flight shame, has gained popularity. A msn.com report contributed by Hugo Martín notes that some US airline executives are now expressing concern that the same guilt could take hold in the US, prompting American travellers to think twice before buying an airline ticket. Chief Executive of New York-based JetBlue Airways, Robin Hayes, told industry analysts during a conference call recently that it was only a matter of time before Americans could follow the lead of their Swedish counterparts to find more environmentally friendly alternatives to commercial air travel. “This issue presents a clear and present danger, if we don’t get on top of it. We’ve seen that in other geographies and we should not assume that those sentiments won’t come to the US,” he said. “Today’s environmentally focused 22-year-old is tomorrow’s 35-year-old frequent business traveller,” said Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst with the Atmosphere Research Group. Maro Kakoussian, who works for the nonprofit Physicians for Social Responsibility in Los Angeles, said she had gone four years without flying because of her concern for the harm airplane emissions could have on the planet, opting instead of take trains or stay locally for vacations. At work, her organisation has eliminated most short-haul flights within the state, turning to online video conferencing for meetings and retreats. “I think once people are educated enough and realise how much of an impact one flight can have on carbon emissions, they will take fewer flights,” Kakoussian said. Emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide from all commercial flights, including cargo and passenger planes, represented 2.4 per cent of all global CO2 emissions in 2018 — a 32 per cent increase over five years earlier, according to a study by the International Council on Clean Transportation. Flights from the US represent about a quarter of the world’s passenger flight emissions, the study found. Airline travel globally had been growing steadily by about five per cent each year over the past decade, according to the International Air Transport Association, a trade group for the world’s air carriers. But in 2019, the growth rate slowed to four per cent, marking the first time traffic grew less than five per cent since the global financial crisis, dragged down by declines in Sweden and Germany. If global passenger demand continues to grow at the same pace, CO2 emissions from air travel will triple by 2050, according to an estimate by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the aviation branch of the United Nations. Citigroup in October said flight shaming was a real threat to the airline industry and that the cost of carbon offset programmes — such as planting trees— could cut industry profits by 44 per cent by 2025. Managing Director of Citi, Mark Manduca, predicted that flight shaming would put “downward pressure to demand growth forecasts.” According to him, one reason fliers in Europe may be more willing to cut back on flying is that Europe has more transportation alternatives to commercial airlines, including high-speed rail, than the US, adding that he believes that short-haul flights, about 600 miles, are most likely to be affected by “flight shaming” in Europe. In response to such concerns, airlines are promoting their efforts to offset emissions by paying to plant trees or funding renewable energy projects. The world’s airlines, including the US carriers, signed on to a voluntary agreement in 2016 called the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation. But some environmentalists called carbon offsetting by airlines a short-term, stop-gap measure. When British budget carrier EasyJet said last November that it had begun to offset all emissions across its network, Greenpeace’s chief scientist in Britain, Doug Parr, called it a “jumbo-size greenwash.” Airlines for America, a trade group for US air carriers, responded, “We are confident that when our passengers know the facts about our environmental record and all we do to connect the world, they will remain proud to fly,” spokesman Carter Yang said. In January, JetBlue announced plans to become carbon neutral on all domestic flights beginning July 2020, and to use an alternative fuel source for flights leaving from San Francisco. Germany’s Lufthansa launched a business fare where the emissions of European flights are automatically offset for corporate customers starting in 2020. British Airway’s parent company, IAG, promised last year to be carbon-neutral by 2050 and to start offsetting all domestic flights this year. Delta Air Lines announced in December plans to purchase 10 million gallons per year of advanced renewable bio fuels from a Colorado-based company called Gevo. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   