Ifeoluwa Oyerinde Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has said the ongoing infrastructural development programme of his administration is a deliberate effort to make the state attractive to foreign investors. Sanwo-Olu, according to a statement on Tuesday, said there would be no point requesting Nigerians abroad to come back home to invest if the local business environment was not developed to support their aspirations. The governor spoke while receiving the Mayor of Brampton City in Ontario, Canada, Mr Patrick Brown, who led a delegation to the State House, Ikeja, on a courtesy visit. Sanwo-Olu said the Canadian city shared similar history with Lagos, stressing that both cities had grown over the decades to become the hubs of commerce and technology. He said, “It feels great to know how much effort you, as the Mayor of Brampton, is investing in driving development into your city and this is similar to what we have been doing in Lagos. We have embarked on an intensive infrastructural programme to make Lagos more attractive to people in the Diaspora to invest in. “All these efforts will sustain the position of Lagos as the first destination for business and keep our economy growing at a steady pace. Lagos is the tech hub in sub-Saharan Africa and there is much collaboration we can seal with Brampton in the area of cyber security. “We are transforming Lagos into a smart city and a city of the future driven by technology. This will also enhance our ease of doing business policy, which foreign investors can tap into,” Sanwo-Olu said. The mayor welcomed Sanwo-olu’s invitation for collaboration in various areas, including education, ICT, agriculture and cyber security. Brown described Nigerians living in Brampton as resilient people, saying their influence on the city’s economy and culture contributed to its economic prosperity and social development. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com