Dayo Ojerinde and Seun Adesoye A former deputy governor of Lagos State, Mrs Sarah Sosan, has said the country will not witness any meaningful development if the education sector is neglected. Sosan, who said this during a summit tagged, ‘Save Education,’ dialogue organised by the Concerned Parents and Educators in Lagos on Wednesday, also advocated for a review of the country’s curriculum to meet with the current reality. She said, “Education is power, education is knowledge, when you have education you have a tool to shift yourself forward, a tool for your voice to be heard, you can tread where others are afraid. No progress can take place in a country when the leaders don’t develop the education sector. “A lot of people are advocating that we should make our curriculum relevant to today’s need. There is nothing wrong with that. A lot of things has changed and we must be in tune with the current reality.” Sosan also advised parents to form the habit of speaking their mother tongues to their children at home, saying it would enhance the preservation of the Nigerian culture. “Let us be proud of our language, our culture, let us teach our children in our local language instead of speaking English language to them at home. When they understand the mother tongue it is easy for them to learn other languages in school,” she said. Corroborating Sosan, the Chief Executive Officer of Brookehouse Educational Consults, Dr Ifueko Thomas, said there was the need for stakeholders in the nation’s education sector to develop a new curriculum. “We need to get rid of the British and American curriculums currently taught in the schools right now and create a Nigerian curriculum that is relevant to our society. Feedback from the professionals in our country should be got to build this curriculum; all stakeholders need to be involved in changing this curriculum so we can get the kind of Nigeria we want. “Let us create a Nigerian curriculum and make it what it should be. We want an effective country and for us to get this we have to give quality education and to get this, we need to go back to the early years of a child and look at the kind of education that is being given to them. We need to give education that will make our children want to fix the country and not to run away. We need to have a conference and ask the professionals in our industry how the graduates are underperforming and how we can then fix this problem in the curriculum,” Thomas said. The convener of the summit, Mrs Yinka Ogunde, said the communiqué from the summit would be sent to the relevant stakeholders in the education sector. “We can only do the little we can, we are not out to criticise the government but we want them to see that they can partner us for the benefit of the Nigerian child. If we have support, we can create this programme and rebuild teachers to improve their self-esteem and make them feel valued in the entire scheme of things. “The outcome of this programme will be drafted into a communiqué and every state chapter of the CPE will receive one and will write a cover letter and send it to their state’s House of Assembly, the commissioners of the state and the governor with the letterhead of the CPE,” Ogunde said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     