Deji Lambo A cab driver, identified simply as Comrade Ehis, has been killed by hoodlums on the Eko Bridge, Lagos Island area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that Ehis was driving on the bridge when his car suffered a flat tyre, which made him to park at a section of the bridge to change it before continuing his journey. It was learnt that while changing the tyre, some hoodlums lurking on the bridge took advantage of the fact that the driver was alone to attack him and dispossess him of his valuables. After robbing Ehis, the hoodlums reportedly threw him down the bridge and fled the scene. Ehis was said to have died on the spot, but the circumstances surrounding his death got Nigerians talking, some of whom condemned the government for not providing security on the bridge where he was attacked. A company, Moving Train Pilot Association, in a condolence message on Twitter, commiserated with the bereaved family and urged the state government to beef up security on the Eko Bridge to keep the users safe. The post on its Twitter handle, @MOTPA_NG’s, read in part, “Comrade Ehis met with an untimely death late last night on Eko Bridge, close to Costain. We pray and hope his family have the fortitude to bear the loss. Securities need to be beefed up on Eko Bridge and all lights need to be working from 6-7pm Sir @jidesanwoolu @followlasg. “He had a flat tyre, came down to proffer solution then got attacked by hoodlums who took his belongings and then still threw him off the bridge. If there was security personnel’s presence and lights on the bridge were lit then he wouldn’t have died or met with the hoodlums.” A picture attached to the post showed Ehis’ remains lying on the ground. Bloodstains were also seen on the floor, while another picture of him posing in his car was also attached to the post. Reacting to the post, Nigerians blamed the government and the police for insecurity on bridges in the state and also shared their experience when their vehicles developed mechanical faults on the Eko Bridge. A Twitter user, Uwem Uwemakpan, said he and his colleague were almost attacked by hoodlums when their car developed a mechanical fault on the bridge, adding that policemen, who saw them stranded on it, warned them that the bridge was a dangerous spot. Tweeting through his handle, @MonsieurUwem, he wrote, “Lord! This almost happened to I and @Ms_Einsteinette when our car stopped there. Police drove past us warning us that the spot was dangerous. Called 911, responded 1 hr later saying they didn’t have tow trucks available. Saw ‘them boys’ coming out before car started. Crazy night!” Another Twitter user, @AlexOkoroji1, wrote, “So many lives and valuables have been lost at that spot between Apongbon and Eko Bridge. I don’t know what the government is waiting for to do something about it. This is a guy that refused to make ends meet from a negative point of view. But to do a legitimate work to feed…” @PapirossMayor wrote, “This is one of many tragedies experienced by these drivers who risk their lives all in the name of providing ‘Quality Service’ for us that think we can treat them like dogs. RIP EHIS.” One Drekay Balinga, condemned the lackadaisical attitude of the state government to curb the activities of hoodlums in the area. He wrote through his Twitter handle, @Drekay01, “This is heartbroken and calls for serious concerns and questioning on the government led by @jidesanwoolu. What happened to the lights on that bridge? Why were the @PoliceNG personnel taken off that part of the bridge? @PoliceNG & @followlasg know the atrocities being done on that very bridge and have never for once tried to get these bad and devilish beings. Every lives matter Sir.” Another Twitter user, @Naija_VoxDei, wrote that the lack of concern by the government and the police was because most of the affected victims were common men in the society, adding, “It’s until a ‘BIG MAN’ is killed that the usual gra gra will kick in and will last for a few weeks, then back to normal.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said investigation into the matter had commenced. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 