Chukwudi Akasike and Sampson Itode Dr Stevens Musa, a pathologist hired by the family of late Ikwunado Chima, a Rivers automobile mechanic who died in police custody, has said Chima’s corpse has never gone through an autopsy before. The victim was believed to have been tortured to death by personnel of the Eagle Crack team at the Mile One Police Division on December 23, 2019, four days after he was arrested alongside four of his friends. The friends, who also escaped death by a whisker after going through life-threatening torture, had narrated how the police inflicted injuries on Chima till he died. A court in Rivers State later declared Chima’s friends innocent and released them from prison. The police had claimed that it conducted an autopsy on the deceased and the medical result showed he died of high sugar level. But the pathologist who conducted what was thought to be a second autopsy on Chima’s remains at the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital on Monday, Dr Musa, said from his preliminary examination, no dissection had been done on the body before. Musa added that the full autopsy report would be released to the appropriate authority within 10 days, urging relatives of the deceased to be patient. He said, “The body that I examined with the observer pathologist showed no dissection that would suggest an autopsy to me. “We have conducted the autopsy; we have done both internal and external examination and we have seen the pathologic evidence from the body that would help us to conclude the cause of death. “We took some tissue samples that we will analyse to confirm the findings under microscopic examination. The pictures taken during the autopsy, the autopsy result with the death certificate would be communicated through the right channel. “We are hopeful that in less than 10 days, this report will be handed over; two weeks maximum. We want you to be patient; you have been patient already and have shown a lot of strength.” Speaking to one of our correspondents on the matter, the Rivers State Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, said the report of a previous autopsy on Chima’s body was given to him by the Eagle Crack team. Omoni explained that those involved in the investigation of Chima and four others had been arrested, adding that the Eagle Crack team gave the same story to other persons. He pleaded with Rivers residents to continue to be law-abiding while awaiting the result of the autopsy. “When the report came up, I contacted the commander of the Eagle Crack team. Though it was late, it was when the story hit the airwave that our attention was drawn to it. He never told anybody about it. “So, when the news hit us like a thunderstorm, I called him and incidentally, two journalists were in my office when I made that call; and it (my phone) was on speaker. I asked him what this matter was about. “That was when he told me that they investigated a case of kidnapping and armed robbery and in the course of it, five of them were arrested and one died in police custody and that he had taken the matter to court. He said an autopsy had been conducted on the remains of the person that died and the result said it was high sugar level. I am quoting him, ‘high sugar level’. “He came with a document signed by one Dr. Obi. So, I am quoting him; and the same thing he told me was the same thing he told the CP and the Force PRO. “But not minding the report, the CP ordered investigation into the matter with a view to unravelling the circumstances that led to the death of that young man,” Omoni added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    