Rasheed Bisiriyu Coscharis Motors Plc has joined a number of firms that have mapped out plans for couples to celebrate the lovers’ day, February 14 in a memorable way. The luxury auto firm says it is set to delight its customers and prospective buyers of some of its premium cars during the Valentine’s Day with special gifts of love across its entire line-up of brands. “Joining us at our open day on the 14th of February 2020 offers you the opportunity to seat with our professional sales team and spec any of your preferred vehicles with special rebate on accessories and lifestyles requested amongst other offerings,” it stated in a statement obtained on Friday. It said buyers of any of its vehicles from the BMW, Jaguar Land Rover and Ford brands among others throughout the period ending February 2020 would get special discount. The offer, it added, had been specially packaged to reflect the mood of the period which would a three to five-year free service of the vehicle at the Coscharis workshop. Coscharis Motors gave the theme of the special offer as ‘Gifting your partner something truly special’, adding that three years and five years’ free service were on the BMW and Land Rover brands respectively. Other benefits offered on the purchases during the period were listed as free registration, trade-in options together with complementary first-year insurance package. The statement quoted General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, as saying, “In order to further deliver the excitement that resonates with a special day like the Valentine Day, we are throwing open our showrooms in Lagos and Abuja to our loyal customers and prospects alike to come and celebrate their love in style and immerse themselves in a world of automobile luxury on the 14th of February 2020 while they have drinks in the house.” Part of the package is a special couple’s drive experience for the first four customers in Abuja, which the firm described as “a memorable test drive to have a feel of our iconic cars.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   