Peter Dada, Akure Some youths in Akure, the Ondo State capital, on Friday staged a protest against the killing of one Ibikunle Alonge, crushed to death by a bullion van belonging to a commercial bank in the town. Alonge was knocked along Ondo Road, at Fanibi Area of Akure, on Thursday. It was alleged that the bullion van and the police escorts abandoned the corpse of the deceased on the road and drove away. The youths started the protest at Oshinle Area, chanting various solidarity songs, and headed to the palace of the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, to express their displeasure over the incident. They urged the police to reveal the identity of the driver of the bullion van. Addressing the protesters, the Chief of staff to the monarch, Chief Toyin Aladetoyinbo, appealed to the youth not to take law into their hands, saying the palace would ensure police got to the root of the matter. A brother of the deceased, Mr Segun Marcel, who described the incident as unfortunate, called on the state police command to launch a manhunt for the hit-and-run bullion van driver. He said, “This is sad. When the incident happened yesterday (Thursday), it took the police over three hours to come over to the hospital and they could not tell us the bank the bullion van belongs to. We are demanding justice and they should ensure justice is done on the incident.” One of the friends of the deceased, Michael Lawrence, said the driver of the bullion van left its lane to hit Alonge. He said, “When the bullion was coming, he tried to move aside but they just hit him beside the road. Bullion van drivers are reckless on the road; the government should put a check on this and we want justice to be done on this matter.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Femi Joseph, confirmed the incident, saying the command had begun investigation into the matter. “We have yet to get the identity of the bullion van but we are on it. We have commenced our investigation.” the PPRO stated. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com