Samuel Awoyinfa An industrialist and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Wemy Industries, makers of diapers, Mr Paul Odunaiya, has called on the Federal Government to check the influx of substandard diapers being dumped on the country. He made this call in Lagos while speaking  with select journalists on issues relating to manufacturing in Nigeria and the challenges. The Nigerian diapers market, a research has revealed, is worth over N280bn. He said this became imperative in order to encourage local manufacturers and boost employment opportunities while increasing the country’s Gross Domestic Product. He noted that the industry had not attained its optimal level in terms of local production because of absence of policies to drive local production. He said Nigeria had a huge market for children’s and adult diapers, and those  women who suffered Vesico-virginal fistula – a hole that develops between the Virgina and the bladder. He,however, stated that the government should review the tariff being paid by local diapers manufacturers on certain imported raw materials. He said his company paid as much as 20 per cent tariff on some of them. He said, “There are raw materials that we pay high duty on. For instance, we pay 20 per cent duty on non-woven, which is a raw material,” he said. “This should not be the case. We should pay zero or five per cent because this is a way to encourage industrialisation and low prices for the low-income consumers.” He lamented that finished diapers still came into the country at 20 per cent duty, which had given competitors an edge to continue importing while masquerading as manufacturers. “Some of our competitors are importing into the country, which is very unfair to us. It leaves a bit of bitter taste. “Diapers are health products and Nigeria should not continue to allow substandard products to flood the local market.” While he advised the government to be consisted in its policy formulation, he said there was so much policy summersault in the country, and  investors would find it difficult to invest in such economy. He thus called for government policy that would protect investors in that sector. Odunaiya said his company emerged the first manufacturer of adult diapers in West Africa. He said, “I can tell you that ever since we started the adult diaper line, the products have gained traction. They are like hot bread. “Locals can now buy locally, rather than import. We also solve the problem of jobs and technical skills.” He said the company had sent some of its staff members to China to learn the nitty-gritty of the operations of the adult diaper machine to ensure efficiency and returns on investment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 