Alexander Okere and Sola Shittu Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to caution  the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole. Obaseki  said Oshiomhole’s alleged ambition to be the “ultimate godfather” in  the state was not worth the lives and safety of the residents. In a statement  by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, on Friday, the governor stated these while warning against a planned rally by the Edo Peoples Movement, a pro-Oshiomhole group, in the Edo Central. Obaseki and  his immediate predecessor Oshiomhole have been at war  over the political leadership of  the state. The statement said, “The plans of the dissident Edo Peoples Movement to again disrupt the peace in the state in Edo Central Senatorial District is unauthorised and goes against the directives of the police  and  state government. “The government calls on the Presidency and Inspector-General of Police to kindly caution  the suspended national chairman of the APC and let him know that no one can be above the law of the land and his ambition to be the ultimate godfather in Edo State is not worth the lives and safety of millions of Edo people.” Speaking while receiving members of the Omega Fire Ministries International, led by Pastor Azemhe Azena, who were at the Government House, Benin, on a peace walk, Obaseki assured the people of the state that he would continue to pursue peace. The governor stated, “We have no fear; no man is God. He will not accept any man playing God. They say they want to run  an illegal rally in the state to escalate the crisis. We are waiting for them. Let them come to the state again to hold a rally and cause destruction. We will show them that God has given us peace and God will deal with them. READ ALSO: Makinde reshuffles cabinet, ALGON warns banks against caretaker chairmen “Three nights ago, some people who planned to set new Era Hall ablaze were arrested in Benin. They have been handed over to the  police. The Federal Fire Service are here in the state to investigate all fire incidents. We know and have found out through intelligence reports that the incessant fire outbreaks in the state are plans to discredit our administration.” Meanwhile, a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Henry Idahagbon, who was   reportedly attacked  by  gunmen in  his chamber on Siluko Road in Benin on Thursday,  said on Friday  he would  not be intimated by the incident. Idahagbon, who is one of the conveners of the  EPM, which later metamorphosed into a faction of the ruling APC, also said he would not stop until Obaseki  was  replaced on November 12. He said, “The governor is using thugs and agbero and it clearly showed Obaseki is a sanguinary despot. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 