Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The deficit of 22 million housing units in Nigeria is unacceptably high, the Federal Government declared on Monday. Speaking at the inauguration of Woodhill Estate, Abuja under the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria’s cooperative housing development loan programme, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, said the housing deficit in Nigeria must be addressed. Mustapha, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Political and Economic Affairs in the SGF, David Adejo, said, “As we all know, Nigeria’s housing deficit has been said to range from 16 million to 22 million, the chairman (of FMBN) just said 17 million but that the minister will tell us where it is. “However, whatever value it is, the housing deficit is unacceptably high. It is for this reason that the government is determined to provide affordable housing as a strategic imperative to guarantee the wellbeing of Nigerians.” The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who inaugurated the estate, however, faulted the 22 million housing deficit value as he argued that the sources of the different housing deficit figures for Nigeria had yet to be ascertained. Fashola pointed out that housing deficit in Nigeria was more pronounced in urban centres than in rural areas, and was quick to state that a lot of houses in the urban centres were empty and unoccupied. The minister, who also inaugurated the National Housing Development Cooperative Scheme, further noted that the construction of houses across the country had created jobs for many Nigerians. According to Fashola, hundreds of persons working in these sites earn between N4,000 and N5,000 daily. He added that most of them usually worked during all seven days of the week and all through the month. The Managing Director, FMBN, Ahmed Dangiwa, said the estate that was inaugurated by Fashola had a total of 154 houses comprising 80 units of two bedroom semi-detached bungalows and 74 units of three bedroom detached bungalows. Dangiwa said the construction of the estate was in two phases, adding that 77 housing units under phase one of the project had been fully completed. According to him, all the 77 housing units had been packaged for National Housing Fund loan by the Federal Housing Authority Mortgage Bank. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 