Wale Oyewale, Ibadan Barely 24 hours after the Oyo State Police Command warned the feuding parties in the state’s local government areas against inciting trouble, the leadership crisis rocking council areas in the state took a violent twist on Monday with one person feared killed in a clash between loyalists of the ruling People’s Democratic Party and the All Progressives Congress in Ogbomoso. A PDP supporter in the Surulere Local Government Area, Mr Abdulazeez Isa, popularly known as Alajase, was reportedly shot dead on Monday while several others were injured. An eyewitness said hoodlums with weapons went to the local government council secretariat to force their way into the offices. It was learnt that the deceased was shot at close range in the chest by political thugs at the entrance of the secretariat around 12.15pm. Isa was confirmed dead by medical doctors who were on duty at the Accident and Emergency Unit, Bowen Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso. Members of the PDP in the council area, including the Caretaker Chairman of the Surulere Local Government Area, Isaiah Adegbite, were at the hospital. Son of the deceased, Salaudeen Muritala, and a PDP supporter, Oyawale Kayode, said Isa’s death was shocking,  adding that as an active member of the PDP, he would leave a great vacuum in the party. In Ogbomoso North, Ogbomoso South and Ogbomoso Central local government development areas, political thugs allegedly vandalised vehicles and motorcycles. The Chairman of the Ogbomoso North Local Government Area, Olamiju Alao-Akala, alleged that the attack was carried out by hoodlums believed to be supporters of the PDP while the caretaker chairman of  the council, Ibrahim Ajagbe, said the APC was responsible for violence. The Police Public Relations Officer, Oyo State Command, Olugbenga Fadeyi, said, “Today, around 12.30pm, two vehicles, one black Acura Legend and a black Volkswagen Golf, were coming from Iwofin towards Ogbomoso and around the Surulere Local Government, Iresadu, “There was an attack and the occupants of the vehicles fired and one Isah Azeez, who was about 50 year old, sustained bullet injury and was rushed to the Bowen Teaching Hospital for treatment where he was later confirmed dead. “The crowd also fired at the vehicles where one Dotun Somefun, an occupant of the Acura, was injured. He is being treated in an hospital in Ogbomoso. He is currently in police custody and assisting the police in their investigation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    