The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance in the 2019 elections in Zamfara State, Alhaji Sani Shinkafi, has written to the embassies of the United States of America and the United Kingdom, asking them to revoke  visas of a former governor of the state, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari, over his alleged sponsorship of militia groups. In a letter, Shinkafi alleged that Yari had been promoting violence and inciting his supporters to violence, to destabilise the new administration in the state. He said, “I am writing to demand the prudential revocation of visa of the former Governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari, for stoking the embers of violence and sponsoring kidnapping and other acts of terrorism against the citizens of Zamfara State. The former governor since his ouster as the governor of the state, has been heard making some unguarded and provocative statements, inciting members of his faction of the All Progressives Congress to move against the state government and making the state unsafe for citizens of the state.” The former APGA governorship candidate alleged that about 8,500 private militia, popularly called Yansakai, were recruited illegally by Yari’s administration in all the 17 councils through a former commissioner in the state. “It is still fresh in our memory and reported to security agencies the arrest, abduction, torture and killing of innocent citizens in the markets, streets, and with bodies lying on the streets and nobody could stop them from the jungle justice that went on in the whole of Zamfara State during the Yari led administration” he added. Shinkafi, who is also the Secretary to the Board Of Trustees Of APGA, said, “Abdulaziz Yari has been seen publicly inciting his factional APC members not to recognise the administration of His Excellency, Bello Muhammad Matawalle, as the Executive Governor of Zamfara State but insisted that they called him a sole administrator. Severally, he has rejected the May 24, 2019, judgment of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, painting the eminent jurists of the apex court with all kinds of names.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     