Deji Lambo Nigerians on Thursday mourned the sudden death in his sleep of a music lover, identified simply as Dolapo. Dolapo, who was a fan of the musician, Ayodeji Balogun, popularly known as Wizkid, had taken to his Twitter handle, @Kinyels, where he wrote, “Anybody can die anytime, enjoy your life! You only live once.” He posted the tweet around 5.05pm on February 19, 2020, and it garnered 962 retweets and 1,800 likes from Twitter users. In an unexpected twist of events, Dolapo reportedly died a few days after the tweet and the news has thrown his friends, families and colleagues, including Wizkid, into a state of mourning. Reacting to the development, the Starboy sensational artiste, Wizkid, through his verified Twitter handle, condoled with the bereaved family, writing, “Rip Dolapo! God bless his soul and I pray God bless the family with the strength at this time.” Also, a Twitter user, @itz_laolao, while expressing shock over the incident, tweeted, “I woke up this morning to the sad news that my brother Dolapo @Kinyels has gone to be with the Lord. I don’t know how to act, I don’t know how to feel, I don’t know how to think, I don’t know how to do anything. I just know that God knows best. Sleep well King. We miss you.” One Laolu, while eulogising the deceased, said he spoke with him on Monday. Through his Twitter handle, @laolusensei, he wrote, “Why? Why? We just spoke on Monday nawuuu. You gave me one of your phones to repair; you said I should bring it for you on Sat. Youn bought me food on that Mon. You even got me a shirt just a day before. This is sooo sad. And we had a project to work on. Damn.. #ripdolapo.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said he had not yet been briefed on the incident. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 