Maureen  Ihua-Maduenyi The Chief Executive Officer of Cielo City Estate, Mr Damilola Ogunyemi, has said Nigeria’s real estate industry has enormous investment opportunities yet to be explored. Ogunyemi made this known while speaking on his e-book, ‘How to locate the right real estate investment property’ which he said was dedicated to empowering investors and realtors on how property investment opportunities. He said the reason for writing the book was to expose people to the opportunities in the industry and also reach out to people who were serious about growing their financial lives through real estate investment. Ogunyemi said thousands of people both at home and in the Diaspora had lost their hard earned money trying to buy land for future purpose or to build their dream homes by investing in the wrong property, company or family. “It has become nightmare as they wonder if their dreams of owning property will ever come to life. Signing up for this free e-book will help, as you are going to learn about land banking strategy and  become a better real estate investor or realtor,” he said. He explained that using the right strategies as stated in the e-book could make anyone a savvy real estate investor. Ogunyemi said, “The book comes with a range of resources that enlighten you on how to determine where to find the best deals, at what price, how to ensure appreciation of price in the future, and how to evaluate a property to know a fair price. “Also, the precise type of real estate that will ensure you have the best chance at cash flow and appreciation, you get an inside look at the exact investments of today. “Illustrating strategies for locating and acquiring the right land banking investment properties, this book is practical, highly-educational and inspiring. It provides you with a navigation and strategy that can be utilised when trying to locate the right land banking investment property.” According to him, the book also offers investors proper guidance and expertise to understand what they are getting and why they are getting it and provides realtors and investors with the expertise they need to navigate the real estate market. He explained that his research on various aspects of the industry had been included in the book which would be unveiled later this month. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 