Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Federal Government has said it would review the concession of silos that were leased to private firms in the country. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Nanono, said this during an inspection of facility at the 250, 000 capacity metric tonnes silos in Jahun Local Government Area of Jigawa State. The minister said the Federal Government would revoke the license of any concessionaire who failed to meet the terms of its agreement with the ministry. Nanono said the review of the concession agreement would be done to determine if they met the necessary conditions set by the government before the concession arrangements. He said while firms that met the terms of the concession agreement would be allowed to continue operations, the licences of those that did not meet their obligations would be revoked. He said, “I am here to see some of the silos leased to the companies and see whether they are doing the job in accordance with the concession agreement. “We will review all the concessions to see if they met the necessary conditions. If they do, we allow them to continue and revoke those who do not comply.” The minister noted that the silos were provided in different parts of the country for strategic reserves and enhance the food security programme of the Federal Government. He said the facilities were also designed to mop up excess grains during the harvest season for preservation and price stability. The minister, according to a statement from the ministry, also inspected the 25,000 metric tonnes Gaya Silo Complex in Gaya Local Government Area of Kano State. In his remarks, the Secretary to the Jigawa State Government, Alhaji Adamu Fanini, said the state government would key into the Federal Government’s policies and programmes in the agricultural sector. He assured the minister that the state government would take advantage of the policy to create jobs and grow the economy of the state. Meanwhile, the Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mustapha Shehuri, has stated that the Federal Government would partner Global Fortunes Limited to establish Agricultural Industrial Parks across the six geopolitical zones of the country. He said this was vital to create jobs and ensure food sufficiency in the agricultural value chain. Shehuri made this disclosure when he received a delegation of the Global Fortunes Limited led by Mr Kidron Israel, in Abuja. The minister pointed out that the project was going to be Public Private Partnership driven; adding that the Federal Government was committed to the development of the agricultural value chain. He said the project, if implemented, would ensure food security and create more employment for Nigerians. The minister said he would visit the Taraba State Agricultural Industrial Park with the relevant directors to see the model of the park that was in the state. He stressed the need for the Federal Government in collaboration with the state governments and other relevant agencies to partake in the project in order to fast-track progress. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    