Omar Edewor, 27, is the Managing Director of AE Technologies. He shares the highlights of his career and challenges with TOLUWALOPE KAREEM What is your educational background? I am an economist. I have a Bachelor’s degree in Economics, Politics and Development from Richmond University of London. I also have a Master’s degree in Political Economy of Development from SOAS University of London. Why did you start your company? AET was registered in December 2018. We started the company because USSD, SMS and IVR were the ideal means of improving access to infotainment services, financial services and insurance services in a market where 70 per cent of customers use feature phones. What is your role at AET? I am the founding Managing Director at AET. What are your career highlights? I am a serial entrepreneur. I have co-founded several telecommunication companies in Nigeria and Kenya. In Kenya, I co-founded Centurion Technologies, a licensed value-adding service company that was founded in 2016, as well as SimbaCell, a mobile virtual network operator. In Nigeria, I’m the Managing Director of a licensed value-adding service company, a licensed lottery firm and an infrastructure sharing and collocation services company. What are the services offered at AET? At AET, we offer a range of products and services such as a short message service platform which is designed to improve marketing campaigns to mobile network operators’ subscribers in a less intrusive and more effective manner. We also have a micro-utility loan service looking to provide loans to DISCOs’ prepaid customer base. We offer a service delivery platform in partnership with Altruist India, for mobile network operators. Our SDP is a content management system and service delivery platform with capabilities including subscription engine, online charging gateway, reporting and MIS module, customer care interface, campaign manager, billing and rating capabilities. AE Technologies, via its insurance partners, looks to provide insurance to the customer base of mobile network operators. We are adept at developing digital channels such as web, app and USSD platforms for financial services. How do you come up with new products and services? We are customer-centric and collaborative. We believe in excelling together. We have strong ‘business-to-business’ and ‘business-to-consumer’ products and services. We always start by imagining how we can add value to our customers’ lives, either by simplifying processes and easing access (in the case of B2C) or by seeking to boost client’s revenues, in the case of B2B. Also, we believe that we can only be sustainable and profitable by growing our B2B client’s revenue, adding value to individual customers’ lives and by sticking to our word. Our track record, integrity and ability to execute is all we have. How do you pick the best business model to operate? We believe that the appropriate model differs from business to business. Businesses are constituted by people and different individuals have different portfolios, cash balances and contacts. Entrepreneurs must be realists who tailor their strategy according to their assets and contacts. For example, my lottery companies’ strategy is USSD and SMS-based because we don’t have the means to compete in the traditional web and app space with the likes of Bet9ja. Do you have any partners? Yes, AET has over 17 technical partners. What is the work culture at AET? The culture at AET is very collaborative and supportive. All members of our team contribute towards the process of developing new services. We all contribute towards the vision and strategy (of the company). I feel very lucky to be working with a team that doesn’t mind working on weekends if need be. What challenges do you face? I am worried about the regulatory and economic environment. I feel there are a number of policies that are making it harder for service providers to be profitable and scale such as double opt-in and the prohibition of airtime as a means of exchange for services other than voice and data. These policies of the Nigerian Communications Commission have made it harder for VAS service providers to sell services. In fact, official statistics show that the industry has collapsed in terms of revenue. In 2014, VAS was a billion-dollar industry. However, it is currently worth less than $400m due to the aforementioned policies. I’m also worried about the diminishing disposable income of the average Nigerian. This fact makes it harder to sell mass market products and services. How is your company gearing up to survive in a supposedly declining industry? Some extremely profitable value-added services still exist such as lottery and advertising. For instance, last month, we launched a smart messaging platform which is forecasted to generate over N30m monthly. We also have a client whose lottery service generates about N2m revenue daily. They launched in November 2019 on MTN. The advent of the PSB framework by the CBN may also resolve the issues relating to airtime not being used as a means of exchange. It is important to note that regulation can incentivise innovation, diversification and new product offerings, so the sector is far from doomed. There are also about 400 licensed value added service providers in Nigeria, and the sector generated about $400m in 2018. In theory, there’s enough revenue to go around. We are constantly looking to innovate, diversify and enter new markets in order to maintain profitability and growth. Where do you see the company in the next five years? The goal is to provide a variegate of B2C services relating to finance, insurance, lottery, infotainment and advertisement in Nigeria, then expand across Africa. Who inspires you? My father and grandfather are my greatest inspirations. I have been fortunate enough to have Mr Mohammed Edewor as a father and mentor. From when I was 10 years old, he often told me about his businesses and even consulted me on issues. Having founded telecommunication companies in Uganda, Nigeria and Kenya, my father and his partners have been an accessible repository of knowledge and contacts for me. He is my best friend and our business aspirations have always perfectly aligned. What are your plans for the future? I want to co-found a finance company this year and a deposit money bank soon after. What does success mean to you? Success, to me, is improving the lives of millions of people by improving access to opportunities and services via technology. How do you like to relax? I love having interesting conversations with friends, watching films, travelling and reading. Does your work affect your social life? Work always takes precedence but I find time to be social, as one’s network directly influences one’s opportunities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 