Chukwudi Akasike Four policemen have been arrested and detained by the Rivers State Police Command over the death of a mechanic, Ikwunado Chima, in a cell. The policemen, including the Investigating Police Officer, simply identified as Sam, were said to have been arrested and detained on Monday at the State Criminal Investigation Department in Port Harcourt. It was alleged that the policemen, who are members of the Eagle Crack, had subjected Chima and four others to extreme torture, a development that led to the death of the mechanic. It was also learnt that the Commander of the Eagle Crack team, Benson Adetuyi, was not among those arrested, because he was not aware of the ordeal of Chima and his friends. “Four policemen involved in the torture of Chima and his friends have been arrested and detained. They were detained at the state CID because of the role they played in Chima Ikwunado’s death. We learnt that the police are still investigating the matter,” a security source told our correspondent. Chima, a mechanic at Ikokwu, died in the Mile One Police Station’s cell after he was tortured by the police, who arrested him alongside four of his friends, claiming they were cultists. However, there has been uproar over the death of the mechanic, even as a court, last week, discharged Chima’s friends, ruling that they were arrested based on mere suspicion. Confirming the detention of the four cops, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Nnamdi Omoni, said they were invited and questioned. Omoni told PUNCH Metro that the four policemen were detained after they were questioned, adding that investigation was still ongoing in the matter. “They (four cops) were detained after questioning, pending the end of investigation,” the state police spokesman stressed. On the second autopsy expected to be conducted on the body of Chima, Omoni explained that the police were still waiting for the family of the deceased to provide their own pathologist who would be part of the autopsy. “We are ready for the second autopsy, but we are waiting for the family of the deceased to provide their own pathologist,” Omoni said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com