Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Indigenes of Iwo, Oyo State, marched together in solidarity on Tuesday to express their support for the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed  Akanbi. This came as Oba Akanbi denied being a boxing king. The Oluwo has come under intense pressure for allegedly physically attacking the  Agbowu of Ogbaagbaa, Oba Dikrullahi  Akinropo,  during a peace meeting called by the  Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone 11, Bashir Makama,  in Osogbo on  Friday to settle a land dispute in Iwo. On Monday, monarchs under the Iwo Traditional Council demanded the suspension and prosecution of the Oluwo, while protesters from Ayedire and Ola-Oluwa local government areas stormed the Osun State secretariat in Osogbo to demand Oba Akanbi’s suspension. After marching through the community on  Tuesday,   the demonstrators, who condemned calls for Oba Akanbi’s suspension,  converged on the Oluwo palace where some prominent indigenes of the town addressed them. The Moluberin of Iwo, Chief Abolusode Adebayo,   said it was  “an affront to the  Oluwo’s stool” that Oba Akinropo attempted to poke his walking stick in  Oba Akanbi’s eyes (as claimed by the Oluwo). He said the  Oluwo had at a meeting with the traditional rulers of the surrounding communities told them to desist from selling land in their towns. Abolusode said, “In August last year, the Oluwo held a meeting with monarchs under his authority. Thirty-five of them attended the meeting in the Oluwo’s palace, where they agreed to stop the indiscriminate sale of land in Iwoland. “The Oluwo also offered to append his signature to the parcels of land already sold, but urged the monarchs to stop the indiscriminate sale of land. “The Oluwo also told them to stop the way they address themselves. He said for people outside to know them and their domains, the monarchs should always add Iwo to their names. “For instance, the  Onigege of Igege should not address himself as the  Onigege of Igege but as the  Onigege of Igege, Iwo. People outside Osun, who may not be familiar with their communities, once they see Iwo, they will know where the communities are located. “It was also agreed at that meeting that signboards in all the communities in Iwoland should henceforth have Iwoland written alongside the names of the towns on them. For example, on the signboards in Igege, Ogbagbaa and others should be written as Ile-Ogbo of Iwoland, Igege of Iwoland. All of them agreed to it including the Agbowu of Ogbaagbaa himself.” READ ALSO: I’ve zero tolerance for looting, says Uzodinma Meanwhile, Oba Akanbi at a press conference on Tuesday denied attacking  Oba Akinropo, describing the call for his suspension by Iwo Traditional Council as a gang up to silence him. The monarch insisted he didn’t punch Oba Akinropo. He said, “If I want to be a boxing king, I would have done that in Iwo instead of during the meeting in the AIG’s office. “I am fighting corruption in traditional system and I will keep fighting it, because I love my people and my people love me. “There was an argument that almost led to the fight that day, but I, Oba Abdrasheed Adewale Akanbi, did not punch the Agbowu of Ogbaagbaa. “He did not know where he got the scratch he was showing people. I advise other traditional rulers in Iwoland to accord me my respect. I am their paramount traditional ruler.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 