Tony Okafor, Awka Residents of Eziowolle community in the Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State are at loggerheads  following alleged abduction of two schoolchildren in the area. The place is the hometown of Francis Cardinal Arinze, Two groups in the community are accusing each other of being behind the kidnapping of the pupils. The children were allegedly abducted in their school in January, 2019. One of the groups recently organised some women from the community who stormed the Government House in Awka with placards, claiming that the leadership of the community knew something about the kidnap. Mothers of the missing pupils, Mrs. Victoria Maduako and Mrs. Elizabeth Amaife, said their sons; Tukwasichukwuobi and Chinenye were abducted from their school and had not been seen. They accused the leadership of the community of not doing anything to locate the whereabouts of the children, adding that they had been in agony since the incident. Reacting, the president general of Eziowelle Development Union, Mr. Titus Akpudo said those who made the allegation were those yet to come to terms with the town union election they lost. He said such people had been causing confusion and creating disharmony in the community. Akpudo said, “If anybody alleges that the children were kidnapped by someone they know, then they should prove it, instead of poisoning the minds of our people. The grouse of these people was the result of the town union election which I won and their candidate lost. Since then, they resorted to smearing everybody. “They wanted me to be fighting our traditional ruler and because I refused to do that, they organised some women to Government House claiming they were protesting against the kidnap of the children. “The women they took to Government House were unaware of their intention and it shows how wicked people can be. They are causing confusion in our town and our people are not happy about it. Reacting, the Police Public Relations Office in the state, Haruna Mohammed, who said he was not aware of the matter, urged the warring parties to maintain peace. He advised them to report the matter at his office for proper attention and handling. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com