Toyin Falola The Bobapitan of Ibadanland In the forest of songs yours is a fertile lyric weaved for every ear. In the sky of words your lines are rainbow, brighter than the moon, illuminating beyond the stars. Are, now that the flute of death blew beyond the seven hills of Ìbàdàn, I offer an elegy to the man whose impacts shaped our lives, a man whose anvil forged the future we desired. Àjànàkú, the elephant that rumbles the forest. If death would have loved to receive money, we would have offered him money. If death would have loved to be offered a thousand rams, we would have loved to slaughter them. But death took you, beyond the earth where the feet of children learn to walk without stumbling. You—father, mentor. You—Achiever. Catalyst. Before the advent of the media, your words travelled beyond the four walls of our country. Before the arrival of death, you were the king and Elesin Oba. You made the earth look ordinary. Now that the song of farewell occupies the sky, Are, let my elegy adorn the world. Today there are no birds to sing because of your demise. Today the earth trembles because your death broke the camel’s hump. Omo Ìbàdàn, your lineage is that of a warrior. Your memory remains unbroken despite the tenacity of time. Farewell, the mountain that bends the arrow of lies. Farewell, the rain that veils deserted lands. Farewell to the son of the soil. Farewell to the scion of Ìbadan. Let me now shift gears to the tedium of history.  The late Dr. Lekan Are (1933-2020) was the founder and  Chief Executive  (CEO),  Kakanfo Inn and Conference Centre, Ibadan. He was also the Chairman, University Press Plc., former General Manager, Ogun-Osun  River  Basin Authority,   and the longest-serving director on the board of Punch Nigeria Limited. The late Are was a member of Ibadan Elders’ Forum and a strong pillar of Government College, Ibadan Old Boys Association. The president of GCIOBA, Chief Wale Babalakin, in a statement, said, “With gratitude to God for a life well spent we announce the exit of our dear patron and trustee, Lalekan Emmanuel Are (1948, Field House), President GCIOBA 1989-2006. Lekan Are is widely known for the passion with which he championed the GCI cause and everything GCIOBA, Lalekan Are was the epitome of a great Old Boy.” Chief Lekan Are will be remembered as an Afrophile, a custodian of the Yoruba culture and a multiculturalist. In his lifetime, he portrays the knowledge of the continent which includes engrained familiarity with different myths, folktales and socio-cultural belief in Nigeria and Africa as well. His ideas and ways of living was that of the Afropolitan, one who believes that in spite of their culturally hybrid nature, one does not sever ties and relationship with one’s African roots. Often times, he has illustrated this attitude with his narration of the story of one of his family members who married a Japanese. The family not only maintains contact with the Yoruba culture, they transmit both Yoruba and Japanese customs to their children too. A humanist and an accommodator of culturally different people, he always insists that there are people who seek to be understood beyond the rigid limits of their statehood. Hence, an affiliation to a country should hardly be the basis for understanding a human being in their totality. This worldview is well espoused in the story of how he travelled to Brazil and met Yoruba indigenes with whom he bonded passionately. Are Lineage in Different Ages Jagini! Jagini! Ojú inú, I can see! I can see! Images tell their lore Like the moon contrasts the grey of the sky Unveiling, revealing, unwrapping Ancient text on woven formats Once seen through a glass darkly Unmask hidden forms Ifa, Arinurode! I can see! I can see! The Are lineage of Ibadan has created a most impressive historical narrative over time. In the old era of the 19th century, they were great warriors, with one of them—Are Latosa—rising to become the ultimate political leader of the city and the overall Generalissimo of the Yoruba. Are Latoosa was famous for the greater part of the nineteenth century, and was actually the most powerful in the last quarter of that turbulent era. The Are managed a huge Ibadan empire at a time of relentless and coordinated opposition from multiple corners and sources. Oba I. B. Akinyele, who wrote a book in 1951, Iwe Itan Ibadan, on the history of Ibadan documenting this era, paid scholarly attention to the tembelekun and ote, the nasty twin of intrigues and conspiracies that defined this era. Thus, as the empire made the Are face ogun (war) abroad, there were tembelekun and ote at home also, and there were just too many of them for one person to manage. Samuel Johnson who also recorded that moment painted a picture of actions, complicated decision making, rivalries, and difficult conflict management efforts. The Are was able to stand at the centre of it all. The empire and its leader dominated the events. Samuel Johnson wrote under the shadow of the Ibadan empire. His composition and portrait of the Are used the language of the empire—muscular, imperial, dominating. As I fell on the past of the distinguished Are lineage, I composed a new song: Omokùnrin kànkà, the hen who challenges the vulture to a fight The vulture circles the hen Smiling, the hen teases the vulture: Become a hawk if you want to eat me Or wait for my death to eat the carcass What can the vulture do to a hen? What can enemies do to the Àre Onà Kakanfò? The war hawk of Ibadan A wildfire that stays on the roof Daring the landlord to fetch fire Water comes, Okùnrinméta turns into air Air, the husband of fire Ekiti take flight Àre jumps thrice to retool. Ologun, yan, yan, yanbíakin The war captain of Ibadan Summoning the Omo Odùduwà with a command; Arm yourselves for battle in the morning I, Yanbíolá, the war general Who sleeps outside until the war is over. Àre, Àre, Àre Never tired of wars, he roams the world The restless spirit of Ibadanland Ògún Omo Ogun Àre I am scared Spare me! Yan yan Yanbíolá Wait for him if you dare! The offspring of a compound Full of arrows Àre the offspring of a thousand quivers Yanbíolá, never tired of wars. Are was thirsty As his thirst rumbles The River Niger trembles Àre, he that pours water away On hearing the rumbling of the rain When the rain rumbles and refuses to fall Yanbíolá turns the Nile into a big pot To supply water to the city. If the rain so chooses Let it never fall again. The late Chief Lalekan Are extended the glory of the lineage, carrying the genes of the older members of the lineage. He added positively to them in aspects of business, management, administration, institutional leadership, and community organising. His mantra was hard work, analysis based on facts, the correlation of process with outcome, judicious use of resources, empathy and compassion. The foundation of his life and career was laid many decades ago. As a young man in the grammar school and university, he combined excellence in sports with distinction in scholarship. Dr. Lalekan Are’s style shared many things in common with the warriors of old. He was a straight shooter, although not of guns but of words. Quick to the point, forever dramatic in his actions and choice of words, and very witty, Dr. Are was effective in getting to the bottom of issues and taking decisions based on facts and good judgment. Like his ancestors, he was a fearless warrior. His weapons extended to the realm of ideas and ideologies. A warrior for all battles, he courageously took up  for many issues with extensive social and political import. Alamu, Omo Níhìnlola Mo pe yin l’órúko Oh, spirit of the hills! Rise up, oh warrior, rise up Tough and stubborn, Bàbá kan soso The fearless, never bothered by threats Baba hears, Run! Run! Run! — he refuses to run Baba hears, Give way! Give way! — he refuses to relent. Tactful warrior, offspring of the Great Warrior Oko Olábísí who challenges death. Death carries a club, Baba Fúnké carries a club. Elephants and lions take flight. He who witnesses Baba Ayò and Death in a duel does not live to tell the story. Alamu, expose the treacherous — treachery hides. Baba Dàmolá, show the face of the wicked: wickedness hides. The hyena who roams the jungle, taunting the dogs to emulate him. Gently! Gently! Baba agba. Please! Conqueror of death. we think no evil, speak no evil Hear no evil of Baba wa I will first sacrifice to Bàbá Àre Conqueror of Death Before I sacrifice to Òkè’bàdàn Lord of the Hills Òkè’bàdàn can wait, Bàbá cannot Accept my kola Bless my kola to multiply May I never see the wrath of Baba Only his praises. Rats see the cat and run. Baba Revenge! Revenge! not once, but twice For they who scheme evil against you yesterday morning Are dead by day break. Baba, Lord of the land  and sea. Five men in one, never to be subdued, Tiger of the plain, Baba, chew silently to say your incantations Grind on the thick stone to make your charms Open your mouth to sing Clear your legs to dance. Ekùn, Praise us, when you mean it abuse us when we deserve it. We bend and bow to avoid the fiery eyes We prostrate to avoid eyes of blood We are quiet to avoid the tongue that lashes We appease Iyalode to calm your temper. I am a beneficiary of his large mind and grandiose generosity. Although I have not been able to take him up on the offer, he mandated his staff to let me stay at Kakanfo Inn for free any time I am around. He funded the publication of my long book on Ibadan. May the Are of the future be great men and women of heroic characters like the Are of the past. May the Are of the future be great entrepreneurs and investors as the Are of the present. As we celebrate the departed soul, do please join me in dancing to a new song. And after the dance, let us close with a final meditation: Somewhere young turned old gents Will handle a photo album with fragile fingers And its dust will turn breathable air, Old dreams, wise words will grace wrinkled faces As silence breaks into sweet single tears While they sniff the nostalgic smell Of your youthful posture In black and white Ajanaku nla, we will see life the way It is meant to be An assemblage of your youthful bravery actions, Wise words and old age pictures Which will be imagined through the eyes Of living old men Who were once lads sitting at your Feet that walked this earth… I remember when waters were clear death was not a word nor sorrow ever heard we bathed in milky lakes doves skimming an infinite blue something lived on… Chief, your actions are living on. Falola is a professor of African Studies and renowned historian. He is currently the Jacob and Frances Sanger Mossiker Chair in the Humanities at the University of Texas in Austin, USA. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 