John Alechenu, Sunday Aborisade, Leke Baiyewu, Godwin  Isenyo and Chima Azubuike The House of Representatives on Tuesday supported the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi’s warning to the North over the region’s poor attitude to education. The Chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Mr Benjamin Kalu, who stated this in an interview with one of our correspondents, said the North had not fully taken advantage of the quota system to develop itself. He said the North should embrace education in order to compete with other regions and stop relying on the quota system. Kalu stated this just as northern youths,  under the aegis of the Coalition of Northern Groups, said the quota system and federal character should be removed from the constitution. Sanusi, at the 60th birthday of  Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai, in Kaduna on Monday, said by failing to address its numerous challenges, the North was gradually destroying itself. He listed problems facing the North as poverty, millions of out-of-school children, malnutrition, drug abuse, Almajiri, and the  Boko Haram insurgency. The emir, who said no “true Northern Nigeria leader” was happy with the problems, said the North should stop relying on the quota system and federal character. The monarch stated, “We have been saying this for 20 to 30 years. If the North does not change, the North will destroy itself. The country is moving on. The quota system that everybody talks about must have a sunset clause.” Admonishing young men and women from the North, Sanusi had said, “We need to get northern youths to a point where they don’t need to come from a part of the country to get a job. And believe me, if we don’t listen, there would be a day when there would be a constitutional amendment that addresses these issues of quota system and federal character. “The rest of the country cannot be investing, educating its children, producing graduates and then they watch us, they can’t get jobs because they come from the wrong state when we have not invested in the future of our own children. Supporting the emir, Kalu said, “The purpose of the federal character element of the constitution is to ensure the distribution of projects and opportunities in the country. If the implementation is faulty, that is where complaints should come. “If you benefit from that particular provision of the constitution without being fully prepared for it, you are under-developing yourself. The problem is not with the law, the problem is with those who are accessing the benefits of the law.” The House of Representatives spokesman said federal character did not mean that those who  were not qualified should occupy positions. Kalu stated, “I agree with him (Sanusi). If you access any opportunity that you are not qualified for, you are under-developing yourself and the country. One, you will not be able to fulfil the demands of that office. Two, you will deny those who are supposed to benefit from that office, what they are entitled to.” The House spokesman noted that what Sanusi said was in the interest of the North and any other region where the issues he raised were. He said, “The benefit of what the Emir is suggesting, to be sincere, is for the growth of the geopolitical zones in the North. I fully agree with him that the net gift we can give to any underdeveloped or undeveloped region in this country is education. READ ALSO: Senate plans no-quota system varsity for Army “Equip yourself in a way that you will be competent to rub shoulders anywhere in the world because of your qualifications; not just your certificate but that you know what you are talking about. We should not be local champions, depending on all the opportunities available. He is trying to raise great minds that will be able to walk outside, and I agree with him.” Stop quota system, northern youths tell FG The CNG’s spokesman, Abdulazeez Suleiman, in an interview with The PUNCH in Kaduna, said quota system and the federal character should be removed from the constitution. The coalition stated this just as the Northern Elders’ Forum said a federation needed a quota system or “or something like it.” The CNG spokesman said although the coalition agreed with the submission of the Emir of Kano, he noted the monarch was part of the elite who contributed to the problem of the region. He stated, “While we do not fault the Emir’s warning on the consequences of an impending reality, we nevertheless insist that the problem of the North is its elite which Emir Sunusi is a critical part of.” Suleiman said the thinking of the coalition was  that not only the federal character or quotas system should end but all arrangements  that tended to promote  “the feeling of separation in terms of geography, religion or tribe should be stopped as well.” He noted that it was time that Nigeria began to relate as a people of one country without the need to see one another in terms of regional identities. The CNG spokesman noted that the coalition was in support of any arrangement that competence and capacity were the main requirements for national service and not religion, region or ethnicity. According to him,  the northern elite must accept to renew commitment to the masses of the region. They said the North must stop blaming other regions for a purely northern problem. The CNG spokesman said, “The thinking in the Coalition of Northern Groups is that not only the federal character or quota system should end but all arrangements that tend to promote the feeling of separation in terms of geography, religion or tribe as well. “If Nigeria wants to remove itself from the current state of atrophy and gain some dynamism in our lives, we need to have a revolution in thoughts, attitudes, organisation and governance all of which would only come through sincere reassessment and genuine restructuring devoid of a hidden agenda. “The North as far as the CNG is concerned must begin to come to terms with the unfolding global reality that it would no longer be feasible to benefit by merely clinging to region, religion or clan and take steps for ensuring competitiveness within the larger construct of a united Nigerian federation. “By fixating almost exclusively on holding on to political power and office at the federal level, the present crop of northern elite, demonstrate a lack of passion and commitment to the people and the pragmatism depicted by the founding fathers of the region. Otherwise, they would have observed that the socioeconomic and political landscapes have shifted, both nationally and globally. “With the inevitability of the end to quota system and federal character, it is time for Sanusi and the Northern elite to take practical steps to ensure that every child either acquires education and thus becomes employable, or learns a trade and becomes self-employed.” The coalition said this was the only way young northerners  could “exit low paying menial tasks for higher paying employment.” According to the coalition, Western and Eastern Nigeria have a similar socioeconomic structure that emphasises education and entrepreneurship. It said, “The CNG is thus disposed to promoting any movement that would evolve with these trends and promote a socio-cultural revolution in Northern Nigeria; that would ensure that the North adopts the twin policies of education and entrepreneurship at the grassroots as the new way of competing. “The elite must accept to renew commitment for the people with a pragmatic approach to life and governance by realising that political power by itself is inadequate to lift the people of the North out of poverty in the unfolding circumstances. “The North must also come to terms with the fact that in a constantly shifting socio-political landscape, political power at the centre is not guaranteed to any section of the country.” YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Govt running well despite Ishaku’s absence –Taraba PDP It said it was not only mischievous, but myopic and unrealistic for the North to clinch to power at the centre. The CNG stated, “We must stop blaming other people for our travails and seize our destiny by promoting a socio-cultural revolution that would ensure that every child is employable or self-employed through education, vocational training and skill acquisition programmes. “Eschew this and ignore its portent remedial ingredients, then we will be only consigning ourselves to irrelevance and insignificance. “And we will continue to grind down into poverty and mired in disunity and endless bickering with one another, until such a time when circumstances will intervene to ensure our dissolution as a nation.” Sanusi’s statement, a wake-up call to North – NEF On its part, the NEF described the statement of the Emir of Kano as a call for action by the North. The forums Director, Advocacy and Engagement, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, said this in response to inquiries by one of our correspondents. He said, “The Sarkin Kano has again spoken on one of the areas which should provide the foundations of a rediscovery for the North. “Education must be prioritised, including integration of Western and Islamic education and major investment in Islamic education to tackle Almajiri. “If the North can develop its human capital through education, it will not bear responsibility for retaining the quota system. Quota system is not limited to education. A federal system needs it, or something like it.” It’s a legislative matter, says Gombe gov The Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya,  who spoke through his Senior Special Assistant  on Media and Publicity, Ismaila Misilli, said quota system was a constitutional matter. He stated, “That is the personal opinion of Emir Sanusi. You know governors have their own forum. They have the governors’ forum where they take decisions collectively. For instance progressives governors have their own – as APC governors – and we have the Northern Governors’ Forum, where they take position on matters affecting their region. “These matters are constitutional matters, and amendments have to start from the National Assembly and in the case of states, we have the state assemblies. The governors will not unilaterally say we will change our system which is prerogative of the legislative arm.” Senators keep mum over quota system abolition Leaders of the various geopolitical caucuses from the northern part of the country kept sealed lips over the call for the abolition of quota system in the country. READ ALSO: FG, not Gombe, executed N100m computer project – Tracka None of the senators, including the Senate Leader,  Yahaya Abdullahi (North-West);  Deputy Chief Whip, Sabi Abdullahi (North-Central); and Ibrahim Geidam (North-East) answered their calls when one of our correspondents got through to their mobiles. None of them had yet to respond to the text messages sent to them individually, as of the time of filing this report. They were asked if they would support a constitution amendment that would end the quota system in Nigeria. Also, repeated calls made to the mobile phone of the Senate Spokesperson,  Godiya Akwashiki, were not ansewerd. He did not respond to the text message sent to him as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 