How do you think Operation Amotekun can prevent recruitment of criminals into the outfit? I was happy when I heard that the recruitment of personnel into Operation Amotekun will go through the normal process. It is good that they will obtain forms and their data will be provided there. Educational qualifications will be there and the necessary information which will help their employers to know who they really are and their backgrounds would be provided. Also, there must be one or two guarantors for them in case they do any wrong. I also want a traditional ruler in their communities, or a religious leader to attest to the character of anyone who would be recruited. Also, whosoever will be recruited must also be profiled. This is very important. Which agency will you suggest should do this profiling? They can allow the Department of State Services to do this profiling because they are very good at it. If you ask the police to do it, they may be compromised. They can also go as far as inviting the National Intelligence Agency to profile the would-be Amotekun corps. Another thing that should be considered is that these Amotekun corps should not be restricted to the Yoruba people alone even though they will operate in the South-West. They should recruit people from other ethnic groups who are living in the South-West, those who can speak the language of the people very well and who understand the terrain. This is equally important because those ethnic groups would be happy that they are carried along and this will make them see the security outfit as theirs and would want to give their support. Amotekun must not be exclusively for Yoruba people alone. If you make it a Yoruba affair, people from other ethnic groups may want to sabotage it or may not give it their best support. In the United States, you have Americans, Nigerians, Ghanaians, Indians, Arabs and people from other countries in their police. What should be ensured is that the number of the Yoruba people in Amotekun corps should be higher than other ethnic groups, but it should not be for Yoruba people alone because security is the business of everybody. Are you in support of the Amotekun corps bearing arms? In the first six months, they should not carry anything, except Dane guns.  By the time these people get better security orientation and trainings on how to be civil and why they should not misuse their power, then they can begin to carry small arms. Hunting for games is different from securing human lives and property, so, they need serious trainings before carrying arms. Guns should not be given to untrained persons. After six months, they should apply for small arms for them. They should be trained on gun handling by either the military or the para-military agencies. The arms should be numbered and the documents should be with the government. You will see that some of them will misbehave during the first six months and anyone who misbehaves should be dropped and handed over to the police for prosecution. That will serve as a deterrent to others. Do you suggest that there should be psychiatric test for those who will bear arms among them? That is necessary for any of them who will bear arms. Psychiatric test is not enough, they must also be tested for psychoactive substances. They must not be tested positive to cannabis, tramadol, codeine, or any hard drugs. These can make them to misbehave and anyone who wants to be entrusted with such a serious job must not drink or smoke. Possibly, they should subject them to drug test every three months. Their blood or urine samples can be taken and tested and those found wanting should be shown the way out. How do you suggest they should be remunerated? This is where I sympathise with the governors. If some of us were consulted I would have advised that they should centralise the salary payment. There should be a pool account where the six states will contribute fund to. The account should be managed by the DAWN or any committee that will manage the affairs of the Amotekun.  The states should pay into the account every month and they should also contact wealthy people in the states and solicit their assistance as well as companies. The companies should be made to pay 20 0r 10 per cent of their taxes into the account and pay the remaining to the respective states they have been paying to. With this type of arrangements, there will be enough money to pay their salaries, maintain their vehicles and other things. This should be Public-Private-Project, because it is security. This kind of security outfit has also been established in the North. How do you see it? The Operation Shege Ka Fasa you are referring to is not like Amotekun that is a product of good reasoning.  Some alarmists just came out and put something which they call Operation Shege. It was hurriedly done and from the outset, you can see that those behind this are alarmists. The Houses of Assembly in the South-West are working with the governors to give legal backing to Amotekun and to ensure that they don’t just bring hoodlums into the outfit. But for Operation Shege Ka Fasa, who are the ones behind it? Their leader is the person that gave ultimatum to Igbo sometimes ago that they should leave the North. Somebody said something as weighty as that- something that can destabilise the country and there was no sanction, he has now gone ahead to establish this outfit. I think their governors should come to the South-West governors and learn some few things if they want to establish security outfit like Amotekun. You even see that the governors and the traditional rulers in the North are not supporting this and they said the group might be worse than the Boko Haram if it was allowed to stay. Boko Haram has been tormenting Nigerians for over a decade now and some of the terrorists captured were said to have been deradicalised, rehabilitated and released. Will this help us to end terrorism quickly? It is very sad and this has gone to further confirm that we are not serious and that we are a lawless country. We have turned ourselves to a laughing stock in the comity of nations. Let’s look at this from this angle, when armed robbers are arrested, they are prosecuted, jailed or sentenced to death. They are never allowed to go free. If they do that to armed robbers, what do you think a terrorist deserves? Terrorists relish killing kidnap many innocent people and some of those kidnapped do not return alive. They raze down communities, bomb public assets and make life very unbearable for many Nigerians. These people give Nigeria a bad name in the international circle and these are the ones they released. It saddens me and it shows we are not serious. Most of them will give information to their former colleagues. Are there measures in place to monitor them after that?  If that is the case, I think when armed robbers are arrested they should just keep them for three days and release them also. Why are they still keeping Evans (the alleged kidnapper)? Evans is an alleged kidnapper and we consider kidnappers to be bad citizens. But you can’t compare the atrocities of a kidnapper with that of a terrorist.  Terrorists that take up arms against their nation, kill, maim and destroy property worth billions of naira do not deserve to be freed. They may even say since they know how to shoot; they should be recruited into Nigerian Army. These Boko Haram fighters they released will continue to give information to their former colleagues and this will make nonsense of the war against terrorism. Evil is pathological with them, some of them cannot do anything good. There is no way you can change them, instead of prosecuting them and jail them if found guilty. After spending like 20 years or so in prison, if there is any of them that has changed for good, then you can free such. But some argue that Boko Haram fighters should also be freed since amnesty was granted to Niger Delta militants some years ago. Is this not logical? That is not logical in any way. They are two different sets of people. There is a sharp difference between a militant, a bandit and a terrorist. Militants agitate for something like the economy, welfare and other basic amenities of life, bandits are armed robbers and they might have been pushed to the crime because of poverty or deprivation and because man must survive that is why they engage in banditry. They may change if their situation changes. But a terrorist don’t have any justifiable reason to do what he does. There is no way you can satisfy them or change them. What is the Boko Haram fighting for? They said western education is evil but they make use of the products of western education to move around, monitor things and even to carry out their evil deeds. The sophisticated weapons they use are manufactured by those who have western education. Even the telephones, the Internet they use are being all products of western education. You can never change the mind sets of terrorists and that is known everywhere in the world. You can change the mentality of an armed robber and we have seen armed robbers that have become good citizens.  Some of the Niger Delta militants they are comparing with terrorists are now engineers, some now work in oil companies and doing very well and contributing to the economic development. But terrorists are not like that. How do you think arms, drugs and smuggling into the country can be stopped? Our borders are porous.  If officers of Nigeria Customs Service are working the way they should at the airports, seaports and land borders, then the problem of arms smuggling will be addressed to a large extent.  But most of these arms smuggled into the country come through the northern parts of the country. How is this possible since the land borders have been closed? Which borders are closed? Do you mean borders in the North or borders in the South? The borders up there are not closed.  Officers also do not see those coming from Niger, Chad as foreigners, they see them as brothers and sisters. Also, there are many illegal routes that lead into Nigeria and when these foreign elements are crossing they dress like Nigerian Fulani, ride on motorcycles. There was a time I travelled from Gombe to Abuja by road and I counted 168 checkpoints but despite the presence of armed soldiers and policemen at the checkpoint, some people still bring in arms and ammunition. This clearly shows that we are not serious about fighting insecurity. There is religious and ethnic sympathy for those terrorising Nigeria. I believe they have those sympathetic to the Boko Haram in the military and this set of troops will always sabotage the efforts of the loyal troops. But how can the problem of insecurity be addressed? Solutions to insecurity should not be discussed on the pages of newspapers because these criminals read papers more than ordinary people. To avoid leaking the solutions to them prematurely, I think there should be security summit which all stakeholders in the country would attend. Reports of such meeting should not be made public to prevent it from being leaked to the criminals. What is your position on the calls for the sacking of security chiefs? The analogue service chiefs have overstayed and they should be told to go. They should go and enjoy what they have accumulated. The insecurity is growing worse everyday and the best thing is to sack them. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 