Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The immediate past Governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari, says his successor, Bello Matawalle, cannot stop the state’s pension policy which confers on him the right to benefits. Matawalle had recently accused Yari of paying himself N360m from the state pension funds shortly before he left office in 2019. Speaking with newsmen in Abuja on Friday when he visited the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, Yari said his successor could not stop the policy. He said, “About the pension policy, government cannot change this policy for now but I promised I won’t say anything for now. “I don’t want to comment on what is happening in Zamfara State but a time will come when everything will be put on the table. For now, we will allow him (the governor) so that he will not say we are distracting him from governance.” The former governor said fighting insecurity required the support of all Nigerians. “As a one-time Chief Security Officer of the state,  I know what the issue of security entails. I know the predicament of the security and that of  state when it comes to the issue of security. “So, I don’t know whether  to continue to change security chiefs will be the solution or getting the right equipment for them or facilities to deal with situation, ” he said. READ ALSO: Why I withdrew Goje’s N25bn fraud case – AGF The former governor said he was at the party’s national secretariat to felicitate with Oshiomhole on the Supreme Court judgment validating the election of APC’s governorship candidate,  Mr Hope Uzodinma. Yari said it was a double standard for the PDP to hail the Supreme Court on Zamfara and criticise the justices on Imo. “We have come to visit the party’s National Chairman on the issue of Supreme Court after the judgment  and also intimidation by the opposition PDP who are making noise about the issue.” “If the PDP makes noise on issue of Imo what about Zamfara, what are we going to say,  did we make any protest?  We did not come out to the streets to protest after   Nigerians said the judgment of Zamfara was a miscarriage of justice,”he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 