Olaleye Aluko and Daud Olatunji Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a teenager, Abosede Idowu, for allegedly stabbing her boyfriend, Aliyu Ibrahim, to death over N3,000. The suspect was reported to have stabbed Ibrahim in the chest after spending the night with him and allegedly taking N3,000 from his pocket the following morning. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said both Abosede and Ibrahim were seen dragging a knife with each other in the public before she allegedly stabbed him in the chest, which led to his death. Oyeyemi said the suspect was arrested following a distress call by the Seriki Hausa in Sagamu to the Sagamu Divisional Police Headquarters. The PPRO stated, “The suspect was arrested following a distress call received from the Seriki Hausa in Sagamu that the suspect and her deceased boyfriend were arguing over the sum of N3,000 as a result of which they were struggling with each other with a knife and eventually, the girl used the knife to stab her boyfriend in his chest, which resulted in his death. “On receiving the distress call, the DPO Sagamu, SP Okiki Agunbiade, detailed his detectives to the scene, where the suspect was apprehended. “The bloodstained knife, which she used to stab the deceased, was also recovered.” The PPRO added that Abosede, while being interrogated, claimed that she passed the night in the deceased’s apartment and when she was about leaving in the morning, she took the sum of N3,000 from his pocket. Oyeyemi said the action of the suspect angered the deceased, who insisted on retrieving the money from his girlfriend. According to him, the deceased was not ready to give her the entire N3,000 and that was what led to the argument between them. “The suspect further stated that it was the deceased, who brought out the knife and while struggling with him, the knife stabbed him in his chest,” Oyeyemi added. He said the remains of the deceased had been released to his relations on their demand for burial in accordance with Islamic rites. Oyeyemi said the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution. Meanwhile, the Federal Capital Territory Police Command has arrested a resident, Oputa Vitus, for allegedly stabbing an official of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company, Ibrahim Garba, to death in the Pasali, Kabusa area of Abuja. The police arrested Vitus on Tuesday following a distress call that the suspect had attacked and stabbed the 50-year-old Garba in the chest as well as another AEDC official, who had come to the area on an official assignment. According to the police, both officials of the AEDC were rushed to hospital, where Garba was certified dead, while the second victim is still on admission. The FCT Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Angujuri Manzah, said the command had commenced discreet investigation into the incident and the suspect would be arraigned upon the conclusion of the investigation. Manzah stated, “The police arrested Vitus in connection with the murder of a worker of the AEDC, who was attacked and stabbed with a knife by the suspect at Pasali, Kabusa, on Tuesday. The arrest was consequent upon a distress call received around 2.40pm by the Kabusa Division that the suspect, armed with a knife, inflicted serious injuries on two AEDC staff members, who were deployed in the community on an official assignment. “The knife has been recovered as an exhibit. As a result of the incident, one Ibrahim Garba, a 50-year-old worker, was stabbed in the chest and was certified dead at a hospital, where he was rushed to for medical attention. “The command has commenced a discreet investigation into the unfortunate incident and the suspect will be arraigned upon the conclusion of the investigation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     