Samson Folarin A  former Rector of Igbajo Polytechnic, Igbajo, Osun State, Mr Akinola Olaolu, has been arraigned by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission. Olaolu was arraigned before an Osun State High Court on four counts of certificate forgery and false statements. This was about two years after a series of investigations by our correspondent exposed the former rector as an alleged serial forger. He had been appointed the acting rector of the polytechnic after claiming to be a PhD holder in Economics from the University of Ibadan. He, however, had only a notification of results to show as evidence of his doctorate, as those who questioned his academic qualification were allegedly sacked. Our correspondent started an investigation into the case in May 2018 and was informed by the UI authorities that the notification of results was forged. Shortly after, Olaolu produced a certificate, which he said he had just got from the varsity. Again, the university  management denied issuing the document. Further investigations by PUNCH Metro revealed that the master’s degree and BSc which he claimed he got from UI and University of Lagos, Akoka, respectively, were also forged. The University of Lagos stated that it did not have any record of his studentship. The polytechnic management dismissed Olaolu in July 2018 as he was also arrested by the ICPC. Our correspondent learnt that the suspect was charged with four counts of forgery and false statements. A statement by the ICPC on Wednesday said he was arraigned before Justice Wasiu Akanbi of the Osun State High Court 2, sitting in Osogbo, the Osun State capital. According to the statement, Olaolu was accused of procuring a forged Doctor of Philosophy certificate from the University of Ibadan, with which he gained employment into the Igbajo Polytechnic. “ICPC’s findings revealed that sometime in February 2003, the accused person presented to Igbajo Polytechnic a forged notification of results that showed the conferment of a doctorate on him by the University of Ibadan. “His action was contrary to Section 25 (1) (a) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act 2000 and punishable under Section 25 (1) (b) of the same Act. “It was also contrary to Section 465 of the Criminal Code Act and punishable under Section 467 of the same Act,” the ICPC said. Part of the charge sheet read in court stated that during investigation by the anti-graft body, the accused knowingly made false statements that he completed the PhD programme in 2002 and he was given a notification in 2003. The ex-rector was also alleged to have presented a forged notification of result document  to the management of Igbajo Polytechnic, with the intent to pass it off as genuine, an offence of forgery, contrary to Section 465 of the Criminal Code Act and punishable under Section 467 of the same Act. Olaolu was said to have pleaded not guilty to the charges, as his lawyer applied for his bail. Justice Akanbi granted the prayers in line with the terms of the administrative bail earlier given to him by the ICPC. However, the judge added other conditions, including that the sureties must be civil servants of Grade Level 14 or above, working within the jurisdiction of the court. The judge also noted that they should produce N5m each in like sum and must be in court at the next sitting. The case was adjourned till March 26, 2020. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    