Bola Bamigbola and Wale Oyewale The leadership of the National Union of Road Transport Workers on Tuesday appealed to Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, to rescind the decision to appoint park managers to manage motor parks in the state. The NURTW said should the government fail to reverse its decision within seven days, the union would embark on a strike. Addressing journalists at the zonal council secretariat of the NURTW in Osogbo, the caretaker Chairman of the Union in Oyo State, Kayode Agbeyangi, accused Makinde of acting the script of some of its former members to truncate union activities and block their means of livelihood. Agbeyangi, who was flanked by the caretaker Chairman, Lagos State NURTW, Musiliu Akinsanya, alleged that the administration of Makinde had been championing the cause of Mukaila Lamidi, also known as ‘Auxiliary,’ who had been expelled from the union. He said, “The alleged plan to appoint park managers is the height of the onslaught against members of the NURTW that are operating across motor parks in the state. “Our union has consistently maintained and encouraged industrial harmony in every state of the federation and at no time has our union declare any industrial strike against any government, whether federal or state, and effort must be geared towards averting this. READ ALSO: Court reverses ex-Fayose aide’s prison sentence “The union wishes to once again appeal to Governor Seyi Makinde to allow the activities of the union in the state and rescind the introduction of the park management scheme within one week (seven working days) so as to save thousands of our members and their families from hardship and starvation. This appeal serves as an ultimatum.” Meanwhile, There was unease at motor parks across Oyo State on Tuesday as members of the NURTW awaited the resumption of the newly inaugurated members of the park managers and members of the disciplinary committee for motor parks. The Police Public Relations Officer, Oyo State command, Olugbenga Fadeyi, however, said, “We are on top of the situation. There was no reported violence in the state, so there is no reason to be afraid.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 