Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi The Nigeria LNG Limited says it has received a letter of nomination from the Federal Ministry of Environment to make Finima Nature Park a Ramsar site of international importance. Finima Nature Park in Rivers State is managed on behalf of the NLNG by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation. The NLNG said the park, a 1,000 hectares land of freshwater swamp forest lying along Bonny Island, was established in 1999, as part of the company’s response to global environmental concerns and the need for a more sustainable environment. The company said the letter of nomination was presented by the Minister of State for Environment, Sharon Ikeazor, who was represented by the Director of Forestry, Mr Tiamiyu Sikiru, during a visit by the ministry’s officials to NLNG’s plant site and Finima Nature Park to mark 2020 World Wetlands Day. According to the company, a Ramsar site is a wetland designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention which is an inter-governmental environmental treaty established by UNESCO in 1971. It added that the Letter of Nomination was the company’s last requirement for the attainment of Ramsar site status, having met all the other conditions, including being a haven for migratory birds and a Wetland Education Centre. “On completion of the process, Finima Nature Park will be listed as one of the 2, 300 sites in the world,” the company said in a statement. The General Manager for External Relations and Sustainability, Mrs Eyono Fatayi-Williams, who received the letter on behalf of the firm, was quoted as saying the NLNG remained committed to ensuring a sustainable environment that would cater for the younger population as well as those unborn. According to Fatayi-Williams, the NLNG fully understands the importance of wetlands as a means to reducing the carbon footprint of the oil and gas industry’s activities in Bonny. “The philosophy underpinning the nature park, which acts as a carbon sink through the CO2 sequestration abilities of the vegetation, also aligns with our contribution to the reduction of gas flaring in the country through our commercialisation of natural gas which would otherwise have been flared,” she said. Fatayi-Williams said the company would continue to place significance on the preservation of plant and animal species found in the wetlands of the park. Meanwhile, the NCF has said Nigeria’s wetlands remained important to the wellbeing of the people and environment. According to the foundation, the wetlands provide critical safeguards from natural disasters including droughts and floods, in addition to providing home to an array of biodiversity. “World Wetlands Day 2020 provides an opportunity to raise awareness on the importance of wetlands, and how the decline of wetlands and biodiversity can be addressed,” the NCF said. The NCF said as a BirdLife International partner in Nigeria, it marked the World Wetlands Day with the theme, ‘Wetlands and Biodiversity’ at the sand filled area of Iyana Oworonsoki, Lagos. The NCF said Nigeria’s wetlands were important for water supply, agriculture, recreation and other ecosystem services. It stated that in recent times, the wetlands had come under intense pressure due to human activities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com