Kayode Oyero The General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Friday, said that God told him that Nigeria was yet to experience fire outbreaks this year. The cleric had said in his prophecies for 2020 on New Year’s Eve at the church’s international headquarters located along the Lagos-Ibadan expressway that there would be fire outbreaks this year. In January 2020, The PUNCH reports that there were no fewer than 20 major fire outbreaks in different parts of the country. Adeboye, who spoke at the February Holy Ghost Service of the church tagged ‘Let there be Light II’, said that he is not a prophet but as a pastor, he hears from God once in a while, adding that if what God told him about Nigeria should come to pass, the country won’t be able to cope. However, he prayed for the negative aspect of the prophecies to be cancelled, saying “If there is a prophecy that has a negative connotation, a good prophet ought to pray that such prophecy will not come to pass. READ ALSO: Visa restrictions: FG, US officials to hold crucial negotiation next week “If it is cancelled and nothing happens, at the end of the year, call me a false prophet, I would be happy. I’m not a prophet anyway; I’m a pastor. But if what God told me should come to pass, how will Nigeria cope? “A prophet will be anxious that everything he says will come to pass. A pastor will care less. “At the beginning of this year, you heard me say that the Lord said that on the international scene, there would be fire outbreaks, flood, storms, earthquakes, volcanoes, that what we saw in the past was child’s play. If you follow the news all over the world, you can see what is already happening. “I told you at that time that Nigeria is part of the international scene; we are part of the world. If you look at what happened in January, just one month, the number of fire outbreaks, houses burnt, markets burnt, government houses burnt, fire outbreaks near this airport and that airport. “If the Lord says we haven’t seen anything yet, then we need to pray.” The 77-year-old cleric said at the programme monitored by The PUNCH that Nigeria needs prayer to avert the disasters before it this year, lamenting that the country does not have the technical wherewithal for disaster management. “In Nigeria, we don’t even have the means to cope with any serious fire outbreak. We don’t have the equipment to deal with any major flood. We don’t even have anything to handle a major storm. If all of a sudden, the ocean should come in, where will our people in Lagos go? “I’m going to ask you to join me in praying that this aspect of the prophecies be cancelled. Father, have mercy on Nigeria. No fire outbreaks, Lord. No storm, please Daddy. Have mercy oh Lord. Have mercy on us,” he told his congregation.