Nike Popoola LAPO Micofinance Bank says it is committed to lifting the financial standard of women by encouraging them to save through its products. The Managing Director of the bank, Dr Godwin Ehigiamusoe, said this while presenting the bank’s product called ‘My pikin & I’ savings account in Lagos. According to him, the ordinary people are usually disadvantaged when it comes to certain services provided by formal institutions. The LAPO MD said, “We are a friendly-focused organisation especially, when it comes to supporting the women and children. “We are building the savings culture among women and children and rewarding them with different benefits such as free life insurance and scholarship for children.” He said the essence of ‘My pikin & I’ product was to enable women and children to save, adding that when children became aware they had account, it tended to inculcate the culture of savings in them. He said Africa did not have savings culture to plan well unlike the advanced countries that were better organised in terms of savings culture and planning. Ehigiamusoe said  LAPO had been developing savings for over 30 years and was still committed to doing same through its product. “We are providing all range of financial services to our women and children. If a large number of our women and children are able to save, it will also help financial literacy,” he said. According to him, the product provides financial security and reduces child rearing cost. While making presentation on the product, the Head, Corporate Planning, Mrs Dorcas Thorpe, said the savings account could be opened with just N200 and was opened to children between the age range of zero and 18 years. According to her, the account owners get 4.05 per interest rate per annum and one year free insurance cover for fire, burglary and disability. She said based on milestones achieved, the beneficiaries would have some rewards through primary and secondary schools, and that the account was opened to both old and new customers. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com