Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors has called for improved leadership qualities among members of the institute. President of the institute, Abba Tor, made the call at a recent leadership retreat for National Executive Members of the NIQS in Abuja. He noted that the tenure of the current executives of the institute was unique, as the NIQS had commenced its second 50 years. Tor said, “Our members and the society at large expect so much contribution from us with a view to moving the nation forward. We shall witness a lot of changes in methodology, approach, processes and procedure in managing the affairs of the institute. “Those changes could at best be premised on due process and corporate governance. Our goals must be clearly spelt out and effectively communicated across the board.” He said it was in recognition of the above that the retreat was carefully organised to further enlighten participants on issues of corporate governance and change management. “Changes, if carefully managed, guided and nurtured, can lead to new opportunities for our members and the profession generally,” the NIQS president stated. He said corporate governance, on the other hand, was expected to enhance the performance of the institute’s executives and the NIQS generally, ensure long-term prosperity for the profession and limit discretionary decision-making process. Tor expressed confidence that through the retreat participants would be remarkably equipped to contribute their quota individually and collectively to the sustainable development of quantity surveying profession. He also enjoined participants to aim at putting in place a high performing National Executive Council that would have the trust and confidence of members, strive to achieve stakeholders’ satisfaction and deliver high quality results, among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   