Gibson Achonu and Chidiebube Okeoma The Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, on Thursday extended the tenure of the investigative panels and commissions of inquiry set up by the previous administration on contracts, land acquisition and others. He did this after meeting with the committees. Uzodinma said his administration would not engage in witch-hunt, adding that it would rather continue from where the previous administration stopped. Notable among the committees granted an extension are the Judicial Panel on Lands and Related Matters headed by Justice Ijeoma Ogugua; and Investigative Panel on Contract Awards from 2011 to date headed by Justice Benjamin Ikeaka. Others included visitation panels to the Imo State University Teaching Hospital Orlu, Imo State Polytechnic Umuagwo, and the Committee for the Investigation of Local Government Administration from 2011 to 2019 headed by Eze Duruiheoma, SAN. Uzodinma promised to revive institutions in the state and recover all state assets in private hands. The governor said, “Continue with the good job you are doing for Imo State. In our little way, we shall encourage you to turn in an objective report that will meet the yearnings of the people of Imo.” In a related development, the governor assured people living with disabilities in the state of his administration’s commitment to ensuring that nobody discriminates against them. He said this while addressing people living with disabilities and members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, who paid him a solidarity visit at the Government House in Owerri. Uzodinma said, “disabled people” had equal opportunity in the state. The governor also said, “There will be no marginalisation or discrimination against you. Go home and rejoice because this is your government. The same opportunity an able-bodied person has in this government is what you have.” Uzodinma, while addressing members of the NURTW said, “I will not allow anybody to intervene with your activities. Any executive you elect, government will work with them. I have come for peace and service. There is a new dawn in Imo and Imo will be better by the grace of God.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   