Samuel Awoyinfa A pan-African platform to identify and actualise innovative enterprises across African countries has been unveiled in Lagos by Maxxconnection. It is tagged the Innovation Festival. The promoters said there was a need to proffer practical solutions to the challenges confronting Africa through innovative ideas, which venture capitalists could buy into. They also said it was an empowerment platform curated to harness talents that would advance the course of humanity and address the societal problems and challenges facing Africa in some critical sectors. Using the theme, ‘Exploring the possibilities of innovation’, the campaign had already open its portal to innovators across Africa. Introducing the iFest platform in Lagos, the chairman, Dapo Adelegan, said, “IFest is an empowerment platform created to showcase and incubate African talents/ideas and to harness those talents to full potential while solving our societal issues. “Africans are talented and it is evident in the way and manner African youths have been able to advance the course in other western countries. Young talented Africans and Nigerians are all over without necessary support, exposure and capacity building to unbundle their hidden talent,” Adelegan said. According to him, IFest as a platform would encourage and collate great innovative works from young Africans, especially in key areas that would assist to drive the continent out of poverty, and create jobs opportunities for millions of Nigerians/Africans through the convergence of all stakeholders- government, venture capitalists, businesses and innovators and implementing some of the great ideas discovered. The executive director of the Innovation Festival, Mr Owolabi Mustapha, said the platform would be accommodating innovative ideas in agriculture, power, housing, and security among others. He said, “We recognise that the possibilities of the human imagination are infinite and the only way to get our desired utopia is to unleash the latest innovative potential innate in all of us,” adding that “We are creating a platform that brings together all stakeholders to explore the possibilities of innovation.” The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Lagos State, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, represented by an assistant director, public affairs of the ministry, Mrs Aruya Temilade, commended the organisers for coming up with such platform, adding that the state was excited to be part of the project. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   