Kelvin Ekerete Arsenal manager, Mikel Arteta, says he is pleased with the development of youngster, Bukayo Saka, after his Man of The Match performance in their 1-0 win at Olympiacos in the Europa League round of 32 first leg fixture on Thursday. The 18-year-old provided the assist for Alexander Lacazette to score the only goal of the encounter, which gave the side the advantage heading to the second leg in a week’s time at the Emirates. Saka has made five assists in the Europa League for the Gunners this season, the most by any player in the competition and his ninth in all competition for the team, the most by any Arsenal player during the ongoing campaign. Speaking after the game, the manager hailed the player’s development, humility, and the drive to keep learning. “I’m really pleased with the way he’s developed. And I’m really pleased with the way he’s handling these situations because there’s a lot of highlight on him at the moment, but he’s still really humble,” he told the club’s website. “He’s still as keen to meet with my assistant, willing to improve. He’s a great kid and he makes big decisions in the final third. He’s not someone who hides. He’s got the vision and the ability to execute when the spaces are really tight. That’s a gift.” Saka’s rise this season has not gone unnoticed as he was hailed by former Gunners captain and striker, Robin Van Persie, for his instinct in providing the assist for Lacazette likening the player’s pass to that of club legend, Dennis Bergkamp and Manchester United great, Paul Scholes. ”That type of pass is like from Ryan Giggs, Dennis Bergkamp, Paul Scholes, ordering your striker to move into that danger zone, it’s world-class,” he told BT Sport. “This is not simple but he makes it look easy. Only the great players can make those passes. This is a pass with an idea, with intent, and this is what you want from your players.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    