’Femi Asu Amazon Energy Limited has completed a training programme for 25 engineers as part of the local content requirements for the Kwale gas flaredown project contracted to it by the Nigeria Agip Oil Company. The programme, called the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board-Human Capital Development training, lasted for 30 months. “For Amazon Energy, this training graduation of sorts is a landmark event for us because it underscores our commitment to capacity development as an indigenous company. We are committed to the development of Nigerian engineers,” the Group Chief Executive Officer, Amazon Energy, Mr David Oluwatimehin, said at a ceremony in Lagos on Wednesday. He said the Kwale flaredown project gave the company the opportunity to train Nigerian graduates. He said, “We took on 25 engineers at the beginning of the project, and trained them through various discipline programmes for 30 months. We have made a commitment to retain 12 of them in the organisation. “We are excited to contribute to the development of the Nigerian oil and gas industry in general, and this we have been doing since inception 20 years ago.” Commenting on the project, Oluwatimehin said, “All oil companies have a mandate to achieve zero gas flaring; gas is flared from the crude oil production process, and it goes into the atmosphere, impacting the environment. “So, through engineering process, we have worked with Agip to reduce 20 million standard cubic feet of gas being produced at their Kwale facility. We designed and have installed four compressors, with other facilities to achieve the flaredown and this they intend to do at several facilities.” The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, Mr Simbi Wabote, said the NCDMB capacity development training for Kwale flaredown project commenced on July 10, 2017. He said after a rigorous selection process, 25 applicants were selected as trainees under this programme, and the programme had 123,960 training man-hours. Wabote, represented by the Director, Monitoring and Evaluation, NCDMB, Mr Tunde Adelana, said, “Today, the entire 25 professionals are graduating in various fields of engineering, with the right skills and different levels of internationally not recognised certification. “This successful implementation of the training would not have been possible without the efforts of NCDMB, NAOC and Amazon Energy.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   