Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Primary Healthcare and Communicable diseases, Utazi Chukwuka, on Wednesday decried the failure of Nigeria to prepare for the outbreak of epidemics like coronavirus despite the Ebola experience of 2014, which claimed the life of Nigerian physician, Stella Adadevoh. Speaking at a programme organised by the Nigeria Healthwatch titled, ‘Legislating epidemics’ in Abuja, Chukwuka said more funding must be voted for emergency disease control, adding that the National Centre for Disease Control was not financially empowered adequately to carry out its functions, a condition he said the National Assembly planned to address. He said, “The position we have taken for the prevention of coronavirus in Nigeria is to ensure that the Ministry of Health works assiduously with the National Centre for Disease Control to ensure that we profile everyone coming through all entry points in the country. READ ALSO: Atiku tackles Buhari for claiming 90% Boko Haram victims are Muslims “Those who have high suspicion rate should be isolated so that they do not infect others, especially people from China. The Minister of Health, Osagie Enahire, is getting the needed support from the government to do the work. “Before the outbreak, we have made up our mind on the review of the National Health Act. We want to increase funding for NCDC. Once they have that, they can increase their presence and do other things but without that, they cannot. “The DG of NCDC stated the fact (that it could not increase its presence at the border during a meeting with the House of Representatives members on Tuesday) not to please anybody but to let them know the challenge of the centre. “When we do the amendment, it is important that all those that will legislate on it would have known the limitations of the NCDC so that we can graduate the Basic Health Fund. We need to do this for emergency response and to procure state of the art equipment for use at their laboratory and analyse data. They cannot do this without more funding.” He added that the nation was guilty of waiting for epidemic or emergency to occur before its agencies began working. He noted, “Ebola came and caught us pants down but we fought it. This time again, not much is on ground. However, we have moved forward a bit. We did not have NCDC before now until the National Assembly passed the Act.”