Oladimeji Ramon The Federal High Court in Lagos has adjourned till April 6 to take pending motions in an alleged $14m debt case between Sahara Group Limited and Ecobank Nigeria Limited. Justice Rilwan Aikawa fixed the date on Tuesday after Ecobank’s lawyer, Mr Obinna Divine, informed the court of his client’s January 23 motion seeking a summary judgment for the sum of $9,125,119.34, while Sahara Group’s lawyer, J.A. Adesulu, said his clients had filed a motion on notice in opposition. Sahara Energy Resources Limited, Isle of Man, and Sahara Group Limited had sued Ecobank, seeking an order  stopping  the bank from carrying out a “unilateral review of interest rates” on loans obtained by the oil firms. But Ecobank filed a counter-claim, insisting that it “reserves the right to review its interest rates from time to time in line with prevailing market conditions.” The bank claimed that based on computation, Sahara Energy Resources Limited, Isle of Man, and Sahara Group Limited were indebted to it in the sum of $14,069,458.30 “being the principal sum and interest due to the counter-claimant as of August 21, 2019.” Ecobank said though the oil firms had offered to pay  them  $9,125,119.34 “as full and final settlement of their indebtedness,”  they  remained firm in their  $14,069,458.30 demand  as their debt as of August 21, 2019. However, the bank urged the court to order the oil firms to immediately pay the $9,125,119.34, which they had allegedly admitted “after the joint reconciliation carried out by parties.” The bank  then further prayed the court to compel the oil firms to pay it another $5,069,458.30 “being the outstanding correspondence to the defendant in tandem with the offer letters of  May  1, 2016 and other subsisting agreements between the parties.” But Sahara Energy Resources Limited, Isle of Man, and Sahara Group Limited have, through a motion on notice, urged the court to strike out the bank’s motion on notice and other processes on the basis that the bank wrote  to  Sahara Energy Resources Limited, instead of Sahara Energy Resources Limited, Isle of Man, as the first plaintiff in the papers  they  filed. Counsel for the oil firms contended that by omitting Isle of Man from  the name of Sahara Energy Resources Limited, Ecobank had “unilaterally introduced a new party to this suit that is not a party to the originating processes, without the express order of this court to do so.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 