Can you recall how your football career started? My football journey started in Kaduna with National Bank. I was working at the bank and also playing; that was in 1989. But I left them for Julius Berger in 1991. I remember there was a particular competition that was hosted in Kaduna, I guess it was the Challenge Cup, I can’t remember. Many clubs were around: ACB, Plateau United, Mobil Pegasus, Berger, Shooting Stars; those were the calibre of clubs that came for the tournament. After a match we played, the football scout for Berger, Abdul Rasheed, walked up to me and told me he was impressed with my performance and wouldn’t mind bringing me to Berger. We exchanged addresses, but I didn’t take it seriously. However, he came to Kaduna, to where I worked. I wasn’t around, so by the time I got to the office, I was told somebody asked after me and dropped his hotel address. I went to his hotel to meet him after I closed for the day at the bank. He told me, ‘Lawal we’ll be travelling tonight’, and I said ‘no problem.’ That was how it all began. I travelled alongside Muhammed Muhammed and Oliver Makor, a Liberian player. How would you describe your time at Berger, where you played for two seasons? It was a wonderful experience. By the time I joined Berger, I met other top quality stars. The likes of Taribo West came in from Enugu Rangers, Edema Fuludu, Ayo Ogunlana  from Ranchers Bees, Godwin Bazuaye from Insurance, Kabiru Muhammed from Ranchers, and Peter Obanor from Benin. Even Austin  Eguavoen’s senior brother, Monday, was at Berger, he was very skillful. So, I admit it was a big step in my career. The leap in quality was evident and it really rubbed off on my career. Tunisian giants, Esperance, were your first club outside the country. How did it happen? The Tunisian contact happened in 1992 or 1993. There was a game we played against Shooting Stars, it was an outstanding game. We initially played it in Lagos, but it was abandoned, so the authorities rescheduled it and shifted the venue to Akure. It was there an Arab saw me; I never knew he was Esperance’s football scout. His name is Zaruf  Lofti. After the match against Shooting Stars; he came to me and told me he wanted me to play for Esperance. He was in the country ahead of Esperance’s return leg fixture against Iwanyanwu Nationale. He said, ‘This is the kind of player we’re looking for.’ I said, ‘okay.’ He promised they were going to get in touch with me. Few weeks later, they came to Owerri and luckily we also had our Challenge Cup group in Owerri. I was in my hotel room when a roommate of mine came upstairs and told me that the coach wanted to see me because some white folks were looking for me. I went down, and saw Lofti; it was the beginning of a new chapter. What is the difference between the leagues back then and now? There is a big difference, from the fans to the quality of players on the pitch. If you’re playing BBC Lions of Gboko, Rangers, Bendel Insurance, Shooting Stars, you will see the energy both on and off the pitch. The league was passionately followed because of the array of stars on parade at these clubs. But now, it’s a shadow of itself. The quality is not there, the stadia are not filled. Enyimba, Kano Pillars and maybe Shooting are still the clubs that can command a sizeable number of fans at their stadia. So, do you think Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, is justified ignoring home-based players? No, I don’t agree with it. There is a generational shift, it’s evolving. While I admit that the quality is no longer there, are we saying we don’t have players at all in the local league good enough to play for the Eagles? Players are still here and thriving. If we don’t have quality players, I don’t think scouts will keep coming for our players. Whether you like it or not, we must have good players. You cannot condemn everybody. Can you recall your experience with Roda JC in the Netherlands? The Dutch are in love with simple football. They cherish tactical discipline. They’re not fans of showboating, they want it done as simple as possible. Quick passing and tactical discipline are their philosophy. They love to keep possession; if you don’t have tactical discipline, you can’t survive in their league. You were often criticised when you played for the Super Eagles. Were you at any time affected by the criticisms? (Laughs) It’s good that you remembered this and brought it up. I was a left-sided midfielder and I wore the No.10 jersey at National Bank and Berger. But when you come into a team with talents, this type of controversy will definitely come up. It was only few people with football knowledge that actually appreciated my role. I wasn’t bothered because I had the coach’s trust, so I only played and proved it wasn’t an accident or pure luck wearing the national team jersey. Coaches kept calling me to the national team, so it meant I was doing something right. Who was the funniest player while you were in the Eagles? That was Pastor, I mean Taribo West. He was very funny he cracked jokes and poked funs at everybody. He kept the squad alive with his jokes. Another person that was comical was Jo Bonfrere, the Eagles coach then.  Nigeria has been involved in feisty West African derbies, especially against Ghana and Senegal. Can you share two memorable encounters with these countries? Mali 2002 AFCON against Ghana is a match I always relish. I remember that volley I scored against the Black Stars in the quarter-finals, it was super. The goal came in at the right time, when we were looking for a goal. I scored in the 80th minute.  What about Senegal? Also at Mali 2002, our quarter-final clash against the Senegalese was a cracker. We played our guts out, but unfortunately it didn’t just go our way. Wilson Oruma would have been a hero because we were surprised when he took the ball to play the penalty after the Teranga Lions committed a foul in their box. We were all stunned, but then felt maybe he had the confidence to do it. So, the prayer was just to get the ball in, we weren’t bothered by who was going to take the kick. And when the ball came off the post, I said, ‘it is finished, we can’t score here.’  Another memorable match that Nigerians will always remember is the clash against Spain, at France 98. You scored a goal that looked so simple, what really happened? You are bringing back wonderful memories, I must confess. That match against Spain was quite interesting; we were the underdogs, no doubt, if one looked at the array of stars the Spanish team had then. Fernando Hierro, Raul Gonzalez, Luis Enrique, just to mention three, showed how strong they were, but this is football, we knew our strength and played to it. My goal, it was the second after Adepoju’s equaliser. When I took the ball, I moved towards the flank, Rashidi Yekini was expecting me to pull the ball back, but I spotted Andoni Zubizaretta’s positioning and decided to go for a cross-shot. It was a move that caught him off-guard as his positioning at the near post cost him, and the ball slipped past his fingers into goal.  Towards the twilight of your career, you went to the Chinese Super League, which is awash with money now. What was it like during your time? Life is dynamic, things are changing. Money in football was different from what we have now. During my time, players were still going there but not as many people as what we have now. They are trying, they want quality players, so they are now spending the cash to have the best. There’s a big difference between now and before.  How would you rate the Eagles of your time and the present team? It’s a generational thing; you can’t use the same parameter to judge both teams. During our time, we had quality players who even sat on the bench. The likes of Victor Ikpeba, Austin Okocha, Jonathan Akpoborie, the list goes on. But this present crop of players are trying, we are gradually integrating experience with youthfulness. And Coach Gernot Rohr has done a fantastic job there.  What is your take on the Eagles’ World Cup qualifiers? It’s a good group, on paper we are expected to win, but then this is football, upsets are real. Liberia, CAR and Cape Verde can pose danger to our Qatar 2022 dreams. We just need to be focused and avoid complacency.  You had spells in football administration and coaching. How was the experience? It was fine. I was with Lobi Stars and also took up a role in the national U-17 team. It was an experience I felt I needed. After that, I became the General Manager of Kaduna United. Football administration is taxing, but if you’ve played the game like I did, it’s easier to integrate into the system. The only reservation I have is our football culture where we seek people’s downfall. We complain a lot about the state of the sport, but then you find out that the rot is even from within. It’s crazy, you’re trying to build something, yet you find people pulling you down. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 