Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The Department of State Services has denied social media reports claiming  Boko Haram has stormed the  Middle Belt including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, or heading for the South to wreak havoc. The DSS  said the “alleged hijack of the luxury buses belonging to three major transport companies on the Lokoja-Okene Road” by criminals was fake news. Spokesman for the agency,  Peter Afunanya, said in a  statement on Friday that the reports had been in circulation since 2013, adding they were making efforts to apprehend those behind the reports. He said, “Another misleading report relates to the alleged hijack of luxury buses of three major transport companies on the Lokoja-Okene Road by persons suspected to be championing an ethnic agenda. “The alert purportedly issued by the DSS on the arrival of Boko Haram and other terrorist elements to the aforementioned places has been in circulation since 2013 when it was first created by mischief-makers whose handiwork is to cause chaos. “The public is urged to disregard these fallacious narratives and reports in their entirety. “Considering that security is a collective responsibility of all and sundry, everyone is advised to report suspicious persons to the relevant security agencies. “We will continue to ensure adequate protection for the people, government and critical infrastructure. We will also not fail to make defaulters face the consequences of their illicit activities.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Air Force has bombed some Boko Haram locations in Kaza, Borno State. READ ALSO: Kidnappers free two kids in Kaduna after killing mum The attack was carried out  in continuation of the NAF’s  North-East Operation Rattle Snake 3. The NAF said on Friday the locations were attacked by the Air Task Force’s fighter jets after confirmatory Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance missions showed a significant presence of the terrorists. “This resulted in the destruction of the structures and the neutralisation of some of the fighters,” NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 