The Nigerian capital market in the 2019 fiscal period recorded mixed fortunes for both operators and stock market investors. While the market saw new listing from multinational companies such as MTN Nigeria Communications, SAHCOL and Airtel Africa, investors in the capital market incurred some of losses during the period. SAHCOL Plc, which is a competitor to NAHCO Plc, listed 1,353,580,000 ordinary shares at N4.65 per share by way of an Initial Public Offering  on the main board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange on April 23, 2019. Specifically, MTN Nigeria on May 16 listed, by introduction, a total of 20.35 billion ordinary shares at N90 per share, lifting the market capitalisation then by N1.83trn. Despite these listings, market value of quoted equities closed 2019 at N12.95trn as against its opening value of N11.72trn for the year. Experts are of the view that the market as a barometer of the national economy reflected the uncertainties that characterised the 2019 business year. They said that political risk, security risk and macroeconomic uncertainties were major factors that adversely impacted the capital market in 2019. The intense political activities in the run-off and aftermath of the 2019 general elections further fuelled macroeconomic concerns as investors waited on the sidelines for clear macroeconomic direction. Speaking on the capital market performance for 2019, the acting Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Ms Mary Uduk, stated that  despite the decline in market indices, the year was a good one for the commission. She said the commission had made a lot of efforts towards the implementation of the capital market masterplan. Specifically, the SEC boss said the issue of unclaimed dividends had been put to rest, while new rules around derivatives market which would deepen the capital market and make more securities products available for trading on the market had been developed. She said, “2019 has been a good year for the SEC, a lot of people like to refer to the negative returns in the equities market but we think that does not define the year. “We have made a lot of efforts towards resolving the unclaimed dividends problems, we have finally come out with the rules around derivatives market which we believe will deepen our market and make more securities products available for trading in our market. “We have also brought out a few more rules on Central Counter Party and also supporting the derivatives market and then rules around Collective investment scheme,  so that we make them better to be able to attract more investors. “ On outlook for the current fiscal period, Uduk said the future for the Nigerian capital market was related to the outlook on the general economy. Various estimates of economic growth indicate the Nigerian economy should grow by about 2.9 per cent to 3.7 per cent in 2019. But the SEC DG said the commission expect positive growth in 2020 as the economy improves. She also said quick passage of the 2020 budget was expected to sustain growth and affect the capital market positively. Uduk stated that developing an efficient derivatives trading market is one of the top priorities of the Commission in 2020. Derivatives are securities that derive their value from an underlying security or asset.She said derivatives as investable products are capable of boosting liquidity in the Nigerian capital market. She said, “Derivatives are traded in all the big markets around the world and they are used in risk management. They are also used to hedge the trade in other securities. “We believe that in addition to that,  this is a good time to have derivatives in our market. They are currently being traded in our markets but they are traded over the counter. “Now we want to introduce exchange traded derivatives so that people can now hedge their positions in the market. The number one advantage apart from the risk management one is that it gives traders and investors more instruments to invest in.” She added that other aspects of the 10-year capital market master plan would be vigorously implemented this year. Uduk said, “The capital market master plan (2015-2025) guides the policy decisions of the commission and we expect to further consolidate on the gains of implementing some of our initiatives. “Specifically, we expect to see the market operates more effectively and rules and regulations are prompt in protecting investors.” The Chief Executive Officer of Sofunix Investment and Communications, Mr Sola Oni, said the outlook for 2020 in the capital market remains positive due to series of initiatives that would be implemented to improve investors confidence. He said the market would be driven by a mix of factors some of which are the effects of negative real return on fixed income securities following the new policy on Open Market Operations which would continue to enhance demand for equities and attract more investors into the market. He also said the consolidation of the insurance sector would make the market witness a flurry of mergers and acquisitions, as well as business combination in a bid by insurance companies to recapitalise in line with the new policy of the National Insurance Commission. He said, “Many stocks are still trading below intrinsic values, hence, attractive valuation will attract more investors. “We expect intense competition among Securities Exchanges with the emergence of FMDQ as a full-fledged Exchange and Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange which is set to commence as a Pan African Exchange. “We expect the government to intensify efforts on creating a conducive business environment through its policy on ease of doing business and building security.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 