Temiloluwa Okoro is the MD/CEO of Reasone Innovations. He tells TOLUWALOPE KAREEM about his experiences as an entrepreneur What is your educational background? I attended Renics Nursery and Primary School, Gowon Estate, Egbeda, Lagos, for my elementary education, then proceeded to Intelligent High School. I went on to study Philosophy at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State. Do you have any corporate work experience? I interned with Lifepage Property and Investment Limited, Lagos, where I learnt the nitty-gritty of structuring a business, strategic budgeting and financial intelligence. I also interned with Pertinence Limited. Having acquired some experience, I started my first company, as a student, named Tee-A Trends. Tee-A Trends was a bespoke clothing line focused on the student market and corporate organisations. What inspired you to set up your company? Working with various clients in different sectors and seeing their poor brand identity, visual communication and representation was what drove me to begin a thorough branding and marketing company. Reasone Innovations is a brand identity company and digital marketing firm. We are a branding agency enthusiastic about giving life to brands. We love to help brands create identities that can stand the test of time through innovative visual communication designs, digital marketing, as well as website and app development. We are also interested in making people understand and connect better with products, organisations and identities through creativity, great concepts and good marketing strategy. We officially started operations in March 2019. Tee-A Trends is now a subsidiary of Reasone Innovations. How much was your initial capital and how did you raise it? We started small and grew big. We leveraged on family and friends, and created a reward system where individuals could earn 8 per cent instant commission on every referral they made to us. As an organisation, we have a fixed policy, which is that our clients pay 70 per cent initial deposit to us for every job, which of course can execute the project. What are the major challenges you’ve faced? As a company, we do not celebrate activity. We are a productivity-based firm. No staff or member of the team, including me, earns a salary. You earn according to what you deliver. We have a sharing formula as a company which is open to our staff members. We have had people come into the company with a salary mindset and they had no choice but to resign because the company wouldn’t pay anybody a dime if the person does not work on projects. I also grapple with the challenge of age discrimination. There are times I have gone to pitch to clients and after an amazing presentation, because of my age, they ask me if they can trust me with a huge amount of money? I feel age shouldn’t be an issue when you want to engage the service of a professional. It is only in this part of the world that one hears things like ‘young professional’.  A professional should be seen and addressed as a professional, regardless of his or her age. The CEO of Facebook, Mark Zukerberg, would not be addressed as a ‘young professional’ but simply as a tech guru. This should also be applicable to every entrepreneur in Nigeria such that it doesn’t affect negotiation in board rooms. Age shouldn’t be a barrier in committing funds to professionals of my age. How do you get customers? Through referrals, digital marketing and top-of-mind awareness. We identify the problems of organisations, provide solutions and send them proposals. Do you advertise your business? Yes we do– through digital and network marketing. Have you ever thought of quitting this business and seeking paid employment? No, I have never entertained such thoughts. Is your business registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission? Yes, it is. How profitable is the business? Profitability is subjective. However, we have a good return on investment. What other skills do you possess? I possess good leadership skills, communication skills, inter-personal skills and great social skills. I am also quick to learn and unlearn. Plus, I am technologically savvy and have the ability to meet self-targets. Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years? I see myself being the preferred enabler of the world’s most successful brands. By December 2023, I want to have helped 10,000 MSMEs across Africa to create strong brand identities and help market their company at a very affordable cost. Considering the fact that most parents want their children to concentrate fully on education, do you think there is any hope for entrepreneurship in Nigeria? Yes; education and entrepreneurship are interwoven. To be a successful entrepreneur, one has to be educated about certain things which would serve as a foundation to building one’s business empire. I strongly believe that the narrative is gradually changing as the society now supports skill acquisition and schools have also introduced several extra-curricular activities which also promote entrepreneurship. What is your staff strength? I have eight members of staff. What is the most influential factor in your business’ success? God. If you had one piece of advice to someone just starting out, what would it be? Start small, grow big, remain consistent and stay true to yourself. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com