Suspected gunmen dressed in military uniform have reportedly attacked and allegedly killed 10 farmers in Avwon, Agadama, Ohoror and other communities of Uwheru Kingdom in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. The PUNCH learnt that the attackers launched repeated attacks on the communities between Thursday and Friday. It was also learnt that the victims were killed in different locations within the communities. Multiple sources said ten corpses were recovered on Saturday afternoon when residents and military personnel combed the area. “The herdsmen, led by gunmen dressed in military uniform, launched unprovoked attack on our communities. They took over our community and launched attacks on our villagers at will,” a source said. Meanwhile, the state governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, has condemned the killing and urged the people of the area to remain calm. A statement signed by the Governor Okowa Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, confirmed that at least eight persons have been killed in the renewed attacks in the communities. He said, “According to reports from the communities, herdsmen accompanied by unidentified army personnel stormed the communities in an unprovoked attack that has become an annual routine, killed no fewer than eight persons and injured many others. “The reports revealed that the crisis started on Thursday and that as of Saturday, lives and property, including farms, had been lost.” The governor called for restraint from the warring parties. The governor charged the Nigerian Army to “investigate the alleged involvement of its personnel in the crisis and fish out the perpetrators in the unwarranted killings. “The unwarranted attacks and killing of innocent locals in Avwon, Agadama and Ohoror communities of Uwheru kingdom in Ughelli North Local Government Area and the wickedness of suspected criminal herdsmen alleged to be aided and abetted by unidentified military personnel are mindless. “I, however, appeal to the affected communities to remain calm and peaceful. I commiserate with the communities and families on the unfortunate loss of their loved ones. “I have directed the Commissioner of Police and the Brigade Commander, 63 Brigade, Nigerian Army, to rise to the occasion and bring the culprits to justice. “As a state, our people have been very receptive to herdsmen and other visitors, but our hospitality and welcoming disposition should not be taken as act of cowardice. “The state government will continue to encourage peaceful and harmonious relations between Deltans and their visitors, but will not watch outsiders attack and kill our people any longer,” the governor stated.