Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The immediate past governor of Gombe state, Dr Ibrahim Dankwambo,  has called for the  strengthening of all Nigeria’s  financial and treasury  reforms particularly the  Treasury Single Account. He said this was vital for effective control of government finances. He described the TSA reform  as the most laudable of financial and treasury reforms, adding that government needed to sustain the reforms for transparency and accountability. He spoke in Abuja at the public presentation of a book on Treasury Single Account written by Mallam Salawu Zubairu,  the Director of finance/ Account,  Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He said that during the implementation of the reforms in the treasury, there were stiff opposition by those against the policy. He said, “We had to be accompanied with Police because of the threat of implementation of financial report. “Things were bad, but things were taken as given because there were no documentation to show how they all intended to do what they had to do. “I hope other reforms, similar reforms will be documented in this way. Going forward, for me that has also experienced the other side of the country as a politician, reforms can come and reforms can go. “These reforms must be made into law so that we politicians who come and go will not just come and take all these reforms for granted and waste them” . In his remark, chairman of the ocassion, Chief Kayode Naiyeju, described the book on TSA as a landmark achievement and urged other treasury officers to write books on areas of finance, and treasury. Speaking at the ocassion, the Accountant General of the Federation, Idris Ahmed, said the book no doubt would  add value and deepen understanding of TSA policy by Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.coma