Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta  Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has called for the implementation of policies that will encourage the preservation of wildlife in the country. Obasanjo lamented that most wildlife that could benefit Nigeria had been exported to other countries. The former President stated this on Thursday, while addressing members of the Pangolin Conservation Guild of Nigeria in his residence at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta, Ogun State. The conservators gathered to celebrate the 2020 World Pangolin Day Celebration with the former President. Obasanjo lamented the high rate of exporting pangolin scale (long-tailed and scale-covered mammals) from Nigeria to China. He called on Nigerians to preserve wildlife in the country, rather than supply other countries. Obasanjo however urged stakeholders in the zoology industry to continue creating awareness on the benefits of preserving wildlife. He said, “In Africa, we believe in the past, the spirit of our ancestors, and we keep them because they are part of our lives. We believe in the present, that is ourselves and everything around us and we believe in the future. So, the life of an African is made up of the past, the present and the future.” According to him, through the destruction of biodiversity, the future is being taken away by the present, making it important to preserve humanity’s future. Obasanjo added, “So, when they said the idea of the Pangolin masquerade parade was on, I said, ‘Good idea.’ Pangolin, the future; masquerade, the past; and we are here, the present. I think nothing can be better. I was shocked to find out that it is now becoming difficult to get pangolin.” “They don’t do you any harm; they are in fact timid. I don’t believe that they don’t survive in captivity because when I was growing up, we had them, we played with them and they were delicious meat.” In his address, the Chairman Pangolin Working Group in South Africa, Prof. Ray Jansen, said pangolins were the most trafficked animal in the world. Jansen noted that 70 per cent of the 97,000 kgs of pangolin scales intercepted while leaving Africa in 2019 originated from Nigeria. A senior lecturer at the University of Ibadan, Prof. Jumoke Morenikeji, explained that pangolins provided the earth with natural pest control with a single consuming millions of insects per year. She noted that over one million pangolins had been shipped from Africa since 2009. She said, “Pangolins exist only in Asia and Africa. In 2019, the number of pangolins shipped to Vietnam was 13,000, which valued at $17 million. “Habitats of pangolins are being destroyed at an alarming rate. Fine of N5m with compulsory one-year jail term should be the punishment for anybody caught with the possession of wild animals as stipulated by the law.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  