Kayode Oyero The General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, on Sunday, led a procession to end the spate of insecurity and killings in Nigeria. Adeboye at the end of the church’s monthly Thanksgiving Service at its National Headquarters in Ebute Meta, Lagos State, commenced the protest from Ebute Meta through Atan Cemetery in Yaba metropolis and back. Prior to the walk, Adeboye led his congregation on prayers for the peace and security of the country, saying, “Lord, have mercy on Nigeria. Let there be peace and security in Nigeria. God sees all things and knows where the terrorists are hiding, we pray that God sends His light to Nigeria and expose the evildoers in the country. He said, “After the service, we are all going for a prayer walk. We’ll march according to age. There are some who would march around the church because of their age and there are some who would march with me to Atan Cemetery and back.” Adeboye, who had instructed all members of his church across Nigeria to embark on the protest, said, “the prayer walk was aimed at offering prayers and supplications unto God to save Nigeria from being consumed by insurgents, terrorists, bandits, kidnappers, armed robbers, militants and ritualists in all our states.” The cleric displayed several placards saying  ‘No to further killings’, demanding that the Federal and State governments should rise up to their civic responsibility of securing the lives and properties of her citizens. He also demanded that “the security infrastructure in our nation be overhauled and improved drastically” for the current security challenges to be a thing of the past. The Christian Association of Nigeria had declared a three-day fasting and prayer beginning January 31st to empower the government and the military forces in the fight against terrorism and the spate of killings in the country. CAN President, Dr Samson Ayokunle had said the spiritual exercise would end today February 2 with a prayer walk.