Our Correspondents The Peoples Democratic Party has insisted on going ahead with its planned probe of the immediate and remote causes of the fate it suffered during the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State. This, the party said, was without prejudice to the swearing-in of its candidate, Mr Douye Diri, and running mate, Lawyerence Ewhrudjakpo, as governor and deputy governor, respectively. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, said this in an interview with one of our correspondents, in Abuja, on Monday. Ologbondiyan said, “Those (probe and reconciliation) are two issues. Reconciliation is ongoing among our members in Bayelsa. It does not stop the work of the committee that is being put together to look into the reasons why we lost in the 2019 election. “It does not stop it. It is not only why we lost Bayelsa and Kogi, it includes the 2019 election. The NEC directed at our last meeting and it was decided that we should form a committee which the National Working Committee was already working on to create the committee. Each of the geopolitical zones is to send two-member representation. “Our party is keen about the geopolitical zones arrangement and every decision is predicated on the geopolitical zones. So, each of the six geopolitical zone should nominate two persons. “The committee is being formulated. There will be inauguration very soon. The issue of reconciliation goes on, the party wants to harmonise the party in Bayelsa.” The Returning Officer of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Farady Orumwese, had on November 18, 2019 declared the APC governorship candidate, Mr David Lyon, winner of the election having polled 352,552 votes to defeat Diri, who garnered 143,172 votes. A Supreme Court judgment delivered on February 14, voided the APC’s victory. The PDP NEC had during its last meeting, approved the recommendation of the Walid Jibrin-led Board of Trustees, to probe the November 16, 2019 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states as well as the 2019 presidential election. In a related development, the senator representing Ekiti South in the National Assembly, Biodun Olujimi, described the PDP’s victory in Bayelsa, as a victory for democracy, justice and the rule of law. Olujimi, said, “Lesson has been served that only strict adherence to rule of law and due process will take the country to her greater heights.” Her position was contained in a statement signed by her media aide, Chief Sanya Atofarati, in Ekiti, on Monday. It quoted her as saying, “The Supreme Court has again made the point that no one is above the law.” By: Success Nwogu and Abiodun Nejo Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 