Dear Major General Buhari (retd), On January 26, 2020, news broke that abducted schoolgirl, Leah Sharibu, had been delivered of a baby after a forced marriage to a Boko Haram commander. Though there has been much media attention on the story, there has been absolutely no comment from the Nigerian government or any of its related agencies. It is most troubling to recall that the person of interest, Leah, is a 16-year-old girl who was abducted from her boarding school along with other female students, yet she was the only student not released by her captors because of her religious affiliation and her refusal to convert to Islam. She has apparently been trafficked to Niger Republic; thus, one can only imagine the conditions of her existence as a captive schoolgirl who, no doubt, has been subjected to a dehumanising existence, consisting of but not limited to: forced labour, sexual violence, physical and psychological torture and finally forced marriage and motherhood. As I mentioned on a recent interview on the TVC, Leah, who was forcibly removed from her school, family and community two years ago together with 112 Chibok schoolgirls remains in captivity after five years, with her whereabouts unknown. The psychological damage of this ordeal to these girls is monumental. If, and when, they are rescued, the care and attention necessary to rehabilitate them as they assimilate into the community would be significant and extensive. The lives of Our Girls Matter® and as such, all efforts to secure the return of these children to their families and communities is a PRIORITY. Our girls have become part of the ever-growing statistics: Out of the 40.3 million human trafficking victims globally, 75% are women and girls (ILO) 23 million child brides in Nigeria (UNICEF); Five million girls in Nigeria out of school (UNESCO); 15 years is the average age of trafficked children (NAPTIP); 17 million Internally Displaced Children globally due to violence and conflict, 30 per cent on the Africa continent (UNICEF) In 2019, we marked the 30th anniversary of the Convention for the Rights of Children, yet only 24 of the 36 states in Nigeria have enacted the Child Rights Act of which Nigeria is a signatory. Our girls cannot be a footnote in a history of violence, human trafficking, forced marriage tinged with psychological manipulation and, lest we forget, enslavement by their subjugators who have violated every basic human right as well as the Nigerian laws. All laws which uphold their rights, welfare and security must be upheld in a humanistic and orderly manner. The government must be held accountable for the safety and welfare of all citizens, most importantly the most vulnerable teenage girls, who fall prey to predators who do so not to value their lives but rather force the services they can provide. Greater emphasis must be placed on the security and welfare of all Nigerian children particularly the girls, who become women that keep society in revolution. They are the mothers, wives, sisters; they are the fibre of society and they perform the unpaid work necessary for society to function and progress. Nigeria as a nation must recognise our girls matter and play a vital role in the development of their community, society and nation. Currently, society is froth with violence, trafficking, child labour and marriage, harassment, poverty and insecurity. The education, safety and socio-economic welfare of our girls are not negotiable. It is imperative our girls are educated and mentored to become viable members of society. Our girls must feel secure with their families and communities and society at large. Our girls matter because they are children, invaluable gifts which must be nurtured, protected, educated, encouraged and provided all opportunities to reach their full potential. Therefore, the return of these precious girls to their families is of greatest pre-eminence in order for the community and the nation to heal from the traumatic and ignominious episode. Sincerely, Dr Ama Onyerinma, Founder & Executive Director, Live Abundantly!® Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    