’Femi Asu Pan Ocean Oil Corporation (Nigeria) Limited has said it will continue to work with the regulators to ensure that the change in the ownership of Oil Mining Lease 98 does not cause significant disruption in production. The Department of Petroleum Resources, in March 2019, revoked Pan Ocean’s OML 98 licence over issues bordering on royalty payments. “Since last year when the revocation of the asset came into effect, a lot of things were left in limbo,” the Chief Operating Officer, Pan Ocean, Mr Olajide Ishola, was quoted as saying during the handover of the asset to the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company. Ishola spoke at a meeting involving representatives of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, the DPR, the NPDC and Pan Ocean, as part of the asset handover process, according to a statement. “This meeting set the tone for the handover and future of the asset. In the months ahead, we will continue to work closely with regulators to ensure that there is no significant disruption in production as a result of change in ownership,” he said. The Director, Department of Petroleum Resources, Mr Sarki Auwalu, was quoted as assuring stakeholders that the midstream assets on OML 98 and those associated with it would continue to deliver value to stakeholders. He said that outstanding operational costs incurred by the NNPC/Pan Ocean JV would receive due attention after verification. He directed the NNPC/Pan Ocean JV to sort out members of staff associated with the asset while pointing out that legacy debt on the asset will be settled amicably, exploring available options, without recourse to legal steps, according to the statement. Auwalu was quoted as saying, “The equity and economic interests of all investors are recognised. We will ensure that no one is short-changed. Everyone will recoup their investments on all the assets and no investor will be discouraged. “Pan Ocean must work together with the new owner of OML 98, especially on the midstream assets. OML 98 cannot be operated efficiently and profitably without the midstream assets.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    