Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The fourth prosecution witness in the trial of ex-Benue State Governor  Gabriel Suswam  for  N3.1bn corruption charges, Abubakar Umar, on Monday told the Federal High Court in Abuja  that Suswam and his defence team tried to influence him to change his statement. Umar, a Bureau De Change operator, at the commencement of his testimony  on Friday, narrated to the court how he helped Suswam to convert a total sum of N3.1bn into dollars  ($15.8m) and delivered its equivalent to the ex-governor in 2014. But the witness had contradicted himself while testifying before Justice Ahmed Mohammed, who was formerly handling the case, saying he delivered the $15.8m to Suswam in his Maitama, Abuja home. But the witness later said  he delivered  the money  to an unnamed person  at   the Benue State Government House. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had declared Umar a hostile witness over his contradictory testimony. Justice Mohammed subsequently withdrew voluntarily from the case after two reports by SaharaReporters accusing him of taking a bribe from Benue State. Following the reassignment of the case to Justice Okon Abang, where it started afresh, the EFCC reproduced Umar as a fresh witness. Led in evidence by the lead prosecuting counsel, Mr Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), Umar, who testified in Hausa which was interpreted to English by a court official, attributed his contradictory statements before Justice Mohammed to the moves made by the defence to influence him. Fielding questions from Jacobs, the witness, who said he had never been to Makurdi, or anywhere in Benue State, said he received many calls, including that of Suswam, while he was appearing before the former judge as a witness. He said the ex-governor, in his call, asked him to see the lead defence lawyer, Mr Joseph Daudu (SAN), a former President of the Nigerian Bar Association. Umar said, “Gabriel Suswam called me and he asked me that I should go to his lawyer, Mr J. B. Daudu. When I  got to  J.B Daudu’s place, he asked me why I wrote the statement (to the EFCC) like that. “I told him to ask the person that sent me to him. He said I should go since I wrote the statement like that.” The court adjourned till Tuesday for further cross-examination of the witness by the defence. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    