Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja Since the commencement of the National Industrial Skills Development Programme, over 200,000 Nigerians have been trained in various trade areas by the Industrial Training Fund. The Director-General, ITF, Joseph Ari, said this on Monday in Abuja at the closing ceremony of the NISDP training programme. The NISDP is one of the numerous skills acquisition intervention programmes introduced and implemented by the ITF to reduce unemployment through acquisition of skills. The ITF boss said out of the 200,000 that have been trained under the programme with skills for employability and entrepreneurship, about 18,000 of them are from the Federal Capital Territory. He said this phase of the programme commenced in the last quarter of 2019, noting that the training, which lasted between three and six months, was focused on nine trade areas. The trade areas are leather works (shoe and bag making), welding and fabrication, catering and event management, tiling, production and laying of interlock tiles. Others are furniture making, domestic electrical wiring and installation, solar energy installation, plumbing and pipefitting, and autogelle and beauty care. The National Bureau of Statistics had in the last quarter of 2018 stated that the number of Nigerians without jobs stood at 20.9 million. The ITF boss said given the intensity and the very practical nature of the training, which was 80 per cent practical and 20 per cent theory, participants were equipped with the necessary skills and attitude for them to thrive as entrepreneurs. He said when tied with the trades, which according to him were chosen after careful and in-depth need analysis of their locales, the management of ITF has no doubt that they would thrive. This, he stated, was based on the conviction that the trades that the participants had learned would always be needed. He said, “Our commitment to skills acquisition is premised on the fact that it remains the most viable and sustainable solution to rising unemployment and poverty that have continued to defy the best efforts of governmental and non-governmental approaches. “There are countless reasons for us to worry as government, and as institutions vested with the arduous task of equipping Nigerians with the life skills for employability and entrepreneurship. “There is no doubt that unemployment has wrought a terrible damage on all facets of our national life. “No reasonable analysis will divorce unemployment from the needless incidents of violence that have claimed thousands of lives across the nation.” Ari said it would be difficult to separate rising criminality and harmful social vices that were being perpetrated by Nigerians because of unemployment and the attendant poverty. “Consequently, our population that ordinarily should be a resource may become an albatross if we cannot provide a greater proportion of our population with a source of livelihood,” he added. He said despite the current economic challenges, the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (Retd.), had made tremendous effort to create jobs. He said there was visible evidence of the Federal Government’s efforts to get Nigerians engaged in meaningful economic ventures. This, according to him, is being achieved through various social investment programmes and the numerous skills acquisition programmes being implemented by the ITF and other organisations with similar mandates. The ITF boss said, “What the Federal Government is doing is clearly not enough in view of the magnitude of the unemployment confronting us. “I will therefore seize this opportunity to appeal to state governments, the Organised Private Sector, Non-Governmental Organisations, Faith-Based Organisations, politicians and other stakeholders to collaborate with the ITF in our efforts to train Nigerians.” In his comments at the event, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, said in tackling youth unemployment, the government was building mechanisms and institutionalised processes, especially in the informal sector. This, he noted, would give the Nigerian youth assurances that their energy and dynamism could be invested in making Nigeria a very productive nation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   