Tunde Oyekola In line with the agreement reached on January 24 by counsel for to Kwara State Government and Asa Investment Limited on the need to settle the issue of the revocation of land allegedly belonging to late Dr Olusola Saraki and demolition of Ile Arugbo out of court, representatives of the two parties on Thursday held a reconciliation meeting. The meeting, which held behind closed doors at the office of the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Salman Jawondo, started at 3.50pm and ended at 5pm. Counsel to Asa Investment Limited, AbdulAzeez Ibrahim, while responding to reporters’ inquiry, simply said, “We are still at the negotiating stage. We have yet to conclude. The meeting has ended for now. We are meeting again on Tuesday by 4pm.” Jawondo also said, “We have started the discussion, we had a very frank talk. We are still discussing. We are meeting again on Tuesday at 4pm.” The state High Court sitting in Ilorin had on January 15 advised parties in the suit to, in the interest of peace, explore an out-of-court settlement over the disputed land, on which Saraki’s Ile Arugbo was built. At the resumed hearing of the case on January 24, 2020, Ibrahim informed the court that his clients had received a letter from the Kwara State Ministry of Justice inviting them to a meeting slated for January 27. Director of Civil Litigation, A.M. Bello, who represented the state government, also confirmed the receipt of a letter from the claimant’s counsel seeking for amicable resolution of the case out of court. Bello said, “In tandem with the tenet of the said letter, we have invited the claimant for a meeting on Monday next week for out-of-court settlement of the case.” In his ruling then, Justice Abiodun Adebara, had urged the parties to resolve the case amicably before the next adjourned date. “We are running out of time. It is crystal clear that the North cannot withstand the kind of contradictions that exist now. The North is on fire ignited by us either by our actions or by what we permit or allow. “Those who truly love the North must now come out and accept responsibility and begin the salvage mission bearing in mind Professor Andrew Haruna’s warning that the North was handed over to us in one peace; we must therefore not pass it to our children in pieces.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   