A life coach and business consultant, Mr Siyanbola Adegoke, has called on Nigerians to embrace self-development so as to be able to harness economic opportunities around them. Adegoke, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria in Ibadan on Tuesday, said there was the need for self-discovery of their passion and talents. The business consultant said the first thing about self-development was asking questions after identifying one’s passion and talents, adding that it was only through this that they could add value to themselves and to the society. “There are six questions in life critical to people’s success. They are: what you want to do; where you want to do it; when you want to do it; with whom you want to do it; how and why you are doing it. “The why is the most important question one needs to answer to thrive in one’s endeavour in life. “And the why is when you start asking questions and reading to get answers to why you are developing and positioning yourself for economic growth. “Reading itself is not self-development. Rather, self-development has to be through a channel that can add value to you. “You have to be curious, focused and gather information that will help you discover yourself, your passion and talent, and then deploy it for your own good and that of the society,” he said. According to Adegoke, to harness economic opportunities, Nigerians should focus on positive mental reinforcement and not negative tendencies. “Nigerians should have something called vision-mapping, whereby they set goals and objectives as well as timeline to achieve them. “Engage in periodic review of your goals by increasing things that you do daily that will aid achieving your goals. “Decrease things that are not necessarily bad but which are not contributing to your vision. Rather, start doing things that will bring your goals to reality and stop doing things that are at variance with your vision,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com