In these interviews by JOHN ALECHENU, National Chairmen of three of the 74 deregistered political parties by the Independent National Electoral Commission expressed their concerns and their next line of action Your party was one of the 74 de-registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission. What is your immediate response? What INEC has done is just a job in the service of the elite political clique in the country, it’s anti-democratic, unjust and unfair and what they have done is to clear the space for the so-called bigger players. For political parties that have dipped their hands in the treasury of this country to have humongous structures and can survive within the murky waters of the financially dominated political parties. What INEC has done is to tell Nigerians that, if you don’t have enough means for vote-buying and compromise the electoral process, you cannot survive within the political environment of Nigeria, this is unsustainable, it is undemocratic, at the end of the day, you have to give the masses a chance and space to also express themselves in a way they should in pursuit of happiness in their lives. Some have argued that 93 is too large for several political parties to manage. Do you agree? Not everybody should belong to PDP or APC, it is not everybody who should belong there, and we should not. The reasons they gave for deregistering political parties are nebulous, if they are saying a political party does not have offices fine, KOWA does not have that problem. We have offices in Abuja, and more than 24 states of Nigeria as required by law and we won a councillorship election in Okigwe Local government of Imo State. So, we won elections, INEC came to physically inspect our office and everything went well. I wouldn’t know why the KOWA party will fall among parties to be deregistered. What happens to our councillor, who won the election, he has been rendered party less? Was there communication between your party and INEC before Thursday’s exercise? We wrote to INEC and attached a copy of the certificate of return they gave our candidate so that they will know that Kowa Party has a councillor. The Electoral Act which the President assented to, if you win a councillorship position, you are good to go. What has happened is that small parties in Nigeria have been told that they have no right to be registered unless you have a humongous amount of money to operate. What is your next line of action? As a party, we are interrogating the matter and we are gauging our actions and legal action cannot be ruled out at the moment. It’s unfair, unjust it shouldn’t have happened. If there are parties that have been unable to sustain their pre-registration conditions fine, INEC can go ahead and do that. I’ve seen parties that ought not to be deregistered that have been deregistered. However, my concern is with the KOWA party of which I am the acting National Chairman. What sense does it make that you deregister 78 and register 100 new ones, I understand INEC has over 100 applications from political associations seeking registration as political parties. It is not an argument to say we have too many political parties looking at what obtains in other African parties. – National Chairman, United Peoples Party, Chief Chekwas Okorie INEC on Thursday deregistered your party along with others. What happened? We are yet to get an official letter from INEC on what exactly we did not do right and what aspect of the electoral act that we did not get. They came to our office to inspect and we provided everything they wanted and if it is based on not winning election during the last elections, my immediate reaction is that that is not the only condition that the Electoral Act provided for as precondition for retaining our registration status. But the issue of winning elections has always been an issue don’t you agree? The Electoral Act also included parties not winning elections in the local government. And local government elections have not taken place nationwide for a very long time since 2019 when the law came into effect. And haven met the basic requirement for registration; which is having a functional national secretariat in Abuja, we have, I wouldn’t know what other thing that they wanted that we didn’t provide. What do you intend to do going forward? We are waiting for their letter to come so that we will convene our national leadership crisis meeting immediately to decide whether to challenge it or react in a certain way will not be something I alone can decide at this point because we are just hearing it. –National Chairman of the National Conscience Party,  Yunusa Tanko What is your party’s position on the recent deregistration of political parties? We have already taken the matter to the court, seeking its intervention on the matter and the court is supposed to adjudicate on the matter on February 16. So, probably in trying to avert that particular situation INEC has gone ahead to deregister political parties. Let’s make this abundantly clear, what sense will it make-already, there are reports that 100 political associations are seeking registration as political parties, these political associations have had their application letters with INEC for months. Ordinarily, by the constitutional provision, if they are not registered within three months, they will be assumed to have been registered as political parties what sense does it make to deregister 74 political parties and register another 100 and you think you are reducing the number of political parties. What will you suggest should be done going forward? I think INEC should reverse its decision quickly before the court will force it to do so. We will challenge this decision in the court of law. It is unacceptable to us. It is simply a way of strangulating the voice of the people and it denies Nigerians the opportunity to run for elections on any platform it deems fit and it negates the principle of democracy anywhere in the world, we are in total condemnation of this action and hope that INEC will reverse this decision as quickly as possible. Do you agree with those who say we already have too many political parties? Of course, no. We have a population of about 200 million people we can’t all be squeezed into just two, three or four political parties. Our constitution guarantees freedom of association and assembly. The role of the election management body is to regulate and provide guidance for Nigerians to exercise their political preferences and not to pander to the whims of a few people by restricting the political space. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com