Anna Okon Ahead of its official revenue generation quota from the headquarters of the Nigeria Customs Service, the Tin Can Island Command has declared that it is already working towards achieving N540bn this year, at a monthly minimum of N47.4bn. The Command that said it exceeded its 2019 official target of N342bn  by N4bn, said  its official task would not be far apart from the self-assigned target given the agency’s total expected revenue of N2tn for 2020. The Public Relations Officer of the Command, Uche Ejesieme, told DailyTrend that the Command’s Area Controller, Musa Abdulahi, had  already started meeting and sensitising stakeholders operating at TCIC and seeking their support to enable the command meet the target achievable. Ejesieme added that the command was able to surpass its 2019 revenue target because of stakeholders’ support. He said,  “We had a target of N342bn in 2019 and were able to make N346bn, with an excess of N4bn. “Using the same projection, we are envisaging that the command, out of the N2tn target government has given us, will get N540bn for the year 2020. “This translates to N47.4bn every month. It is actually not going to be very easy but for the strategies that the comptroller has put in place. This is the essence of the conversations, consultations and all the meetings. “He met with officers in the middle cadre, officer commanding terminals, members and leadership of the various associations, key security agencies and so on. “In all of these meetings, he highlighted some of the achievements we made last year, thanking them for their support and collaboration and preparing their minds for the challenges ahead.” He pointed out that Customs alone could not achieve this, adding that this was why the CAC was seeking the support of all and sundry so that the command’s anticipated target would be  achieved, especially with the comparative advantage from the border closure. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com