Sola Shittu, Benin An Ekpoma High Court, on Thursday, granted an order of interim injunction preventing the Peoples Democratic Party from announcing, publishing and recognising the ward congresses results conducted on February 1. The order comes on the heels of a series of petitions against the conduct of the congress allegedly marred by imposition of candidates by the outgoing chairman of the party, Mr Dan Orbih. In the suit filed by Eruanga Gallant, Victor Idekheoa and Hide Obalowoshe in the Edo State High Court of Justice Ekpoma Judicial Division, the claimants asked the court to grant an interim order to restrain the PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission from using the results of the wards congresses for the local government areas congresses scheduled to hold on Saturday. They also asked the court to stop the PDP from conducting the LGA congresses scheduled to hold on Saturday pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice already filed. Justice John Okeaya-Ineh, while granting the order, said, “I have carefully considered the motion ex parte before court together with affidavit in support and affidavit in urgency with the attached exhibits, A, A1, B, B1, B2, D and E and the three address of counsel for the three applicants in this motion. “I find that the applicants have satisfied the guidelines for the grant of the order sought as enjoined in the landmark case of Kotoye vs CBN (1989) NWLR (PT. 98) 419 at 441.” He said the balance of convenience was in favour of the three applicants, and there was no undue delay in bringing the application “It is in that light that I find merit in this application. In view of the above, prayer, (A), (B) and ( C ) are hereby granted as stated on the face of the motion paper,” he said. He then adjourned the case to February 24 for hearing. Meanwhile, two PDP aspirants, Mr Gideon Ikhine and Ken Imasuagbon, on Thursday vowed to resist alleged attempts by the outgoing state chairman, Orbih, to hijack the system to sustain his “ulterior motive.” Ikhine said, “I want to thank the committee led by Governor Seyi Makinde, set up by the PDP at the national level. But there was no congress anywhere in the entire state. The committee did not follow the guidelines. Imasuagbon said, “What we had was manipulations, writing of results by Dan Orbih and his team. That will not work in the Nigeria we have today, I’m telling Edo people. When contacted, the state PDP Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, said Orbih did not organise the ward congress, adding that it was the responsibility of the national headquarters. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   