Sodiq Oyeleke The Nigeria Police Force has said two wanted terror commanders were killed, and three terrorists arrested when it invaded Ansaru terrorist group’s camp on Wednesday in Kaduna. NPF, in a statement by its spokesperson, Frank Mba, also said its officers recovered a cache of arms and ammunition. NPF, in an earlier statement, said 250 terrorists and bandits were killed in the invasion. The PUNCH  reports that some of the exhibits, the police recovered during the operation include 11 AK47 rifles, 730 rounds of live AK47 ammunition, 152 rounds of GPMG ammunition in two chains, 13 pairs of military camouflage uniforms, two cartons and 48 sachets of tramadol, four facemasks, phones, and other electronic gadgets. According to the statement, the exhibits are currently subject to forensic investigations. The statement added that a police inspector was also killed and 13 other policemen injured. READ ALSO: Court sentences man to death by hanging for murder of Uber driver The statement read in part, “In the aftermath of the Police counter-terrorism operations which successfully neutralized the operational bases of the Ansaru Terrorists’ Group and bandits, one Haruna Basullube ‘m’ – one of the most wanted kidnappers/cattle rustlers in the country and one Bashir Leta ‘m’ – another notorious bandits’ commander were killed; while one Mallam Abba ‘m’ – Commander of Boko Haram camp in Kuduru Forest and one Mofa ‘m’ – a notorious kidnapper were critically injured. “Meanwhile, as mop-up operations continue, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A. Adamu, has deployed crack detectives and special forensic investigators from the Force Headquarters to expedite investigations into the broad criminal enterprise of the group and their associates. “In spite of the successes of the operation, one Inspector Muhammed Abubakar attached to the Police Special Forces regrettably died as a result of injuries sustained in the heat of the combat. “Thirteen other officers (made up of two SPs, one DSP, four Inspectors and and Sergeants) including the Pilot and Co-pilot of the Police helicopter, sustained different degrees of injuries and are currently receiving treatment. “The late Inspector Muhammed Abubakar was one of the finest officers of the Police Special Forces with vast training and operational background, both at home and abroad. He was among the pioneer set of the Police Special Forces trained in Belarus. Born on July 8, 1985, he was enlisted into the Nigeria Police on June 1, 2008 as a Constable and rose to the rank of Inspector of Police before his untimely death. “As a member of the Special Forces, he participated in several successful Police operations and joint missions with the military in the fight against insurgency both in and outside the North-eastern part of the country.” While condoling with the family, friends, and professional colleagues of the late officer, the IGP restated the commitment of the Force to the safety of its personnel and the nation. “Citizens living in and around Birnin-Gwari axis of Kaduna State are enjoined to be on the lookout for fleeing bandits especially those with bullet wounds and report every suspicious behavior to the Police,” the statement added.