Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Supreme Court on Tuesday affirmed the Bayelsa State governor-elect, David Lyon, as the valid candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the last governorship election in the state. A five-man panel of the court led by Justice Mary Peter-Odili unanimously dismissed the appeal filed by Heineken Lokpobiri to challenge Lyon’s emergence as the winner of September 4, 2019 primary election of the APC, as lacking in merit. The verdict laid to rest the dispute as to whether or not the APC validly fielded a candidate for the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state. The Federal High Court in Yenogoa, Bayelsa State, had in its judgment delivered on Lokpobiri’s suit on November 14, 2019, nullified the APC’s primaries in the state but the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt granted an order of stay of execution of the verdict paving the way for the party to field Lyon as its candidate for the governorship election. Lyon went on to win the governorship election. On January 11, 2020, the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt delivered a judgment upturning the verdict of the Federal High Court and affirmed Lyon as the party’s candidate for the election. Lokpobiri, a contender in the September 4, 2019 APC primaries which Lyon was declared winner, had appealed to the apex court joining the APC, Lyon and the Independent National Electoral Commission as the respondents. Delivering the lead judgment of the apex court on the appeal on Tuesday, Justice Inyang Okoro affirmed the January 11, 2020, judgment of the Port Harcourt Division of the Court of Appeal dismissing Lokpobiri’s suit instituted to challenge Lyon’s emergence as the winner of the primary election. Justice Okoro ruled that Lokpobiri’s appeal lacked merit, as he explained that the case had become statute-barred because it was not originated at the Federal High Court, Yenogoa, within the 14 days of the occurrence of the cause of action, as provided by the constitution. He held that by virtue of section 285(9) of the Nigerian Constitution, the cause of action, which is the grievance brought to court by the appellant, arose on September 4, 2019, when Lyon was declared the winner of the primary election and not September 7, 2019 as erroneously believed by Lokpobiri. Lokpobiri, who had sought to be declared the valid winner of the September 4, 2019 primaries, filed his suit before the Federal High Court in Yenegoa with the belief that the cause of action arose on September 7, 2019, when his appeal to the party challenging the outcome of the primaries was rejected. But Justice Okoro held that the cause of action arose on the day the cause of Lokpobiri’s grievance, which was the date Lyon and not him was announced as the winner of the primaries. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com