Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has said that the development of the nation’s infrastructure is one of the fastest ways to create jobs and reduce the level of unemployment in the country. Fashola said the infrastructure policy of the present administration had started to make significant impact across the country. He said these during an inspection tour of some Federal Government projects. Some of the projects are the rehabilitation of Onitsha-Enugu Expressway, Anambra; the construction of Federal Secretariat, Awka; the National Housing Programme at Isiagwu, and the Second Niger Bridge in Anambra and Delta states. The National Bureau of Statistics had in the last quarter of 2019 stated that the number of Nigerians without jobs stood at 20.9 million. However, Fashola said infrastructure held the key to achieving the plan of the Federal Government to lift about 100 million out of poverty. He said, “Policies have very diverse and extensive impact on the people. So, when Mr President says he wants to lift a 100 million people out of poverty, he knows what he is saying and he knows some of the right buttons like infrastructure. “It is the initial value chain of the economy which is the first impact you feel when it comes to infrastructure.” A statement from the ministry said Fashola also inspected the National Housing Programme in Asaba located along Benin-Asaba Expressway which had twelve contractors on site. It stated that the Project Supervisor, Godwin Otobo, told the minister that the first phase of the semi-detached houses had reached about 100 per cent completion level. Other projects inspected were the construction of Umunya Road in Awka, Anambra State.  The minister was said to have expressed dissatisfaction over the slow pace of work on the road and charged the contractor to expedite action. He also inspected the construction of the second Niger Bridge which had reached over 30 per cent completion level. The Second Niger Bridge is expected to be completed in year 2022. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com