Henry Ford once said that “coming together is a beginning, staying together is progress, and working together is a success.” I have been with Leadway for over two decades. They have been my household insurance company, making sure my businesses and I are appropriately covered. I ensured that the assets and vehicles belonging to the organizations that I run, such as June investments Limited, Tob Drill Limited and Alluvia Resources are all insured by Leadway. Choosing Leadway Assurance as my insurance partner has been a decision with zero regrets. They have consistently fostered and maintained an excellent client-to-insurer relationship that we have mutually enjoyed over the years, and it has been a worthwhile experience. Over the years, my experience with Leadway has been exceptional. As a brand that has its foundation in operational excellence, Leadway has never faltered on any of my claims payment. I recall an experience three years ago when there was an accident involving one of my vehicles. I called Ogunedina Adekunle, my Accounts Officer at the time, who asked that I take the car to the nearest auto mechanic shop. I did just that, and they came immediately to inspect the extent of damages. On the third day, I received a cheque, and within five days, we completely restored the vehicle, fixing all the damaged.. Also, about four weeks ago, we had another incident involving one of our employees with our field vehicles. We called Leadway and as expected, they resolved it promptly. These are but a few positive experiences I have had with this veritable insurer, and with these instances cited, I can confidently say that Leadway does not only excel at claims handling but delivers impeccable service in a timely fashion. With Leadway, you get paid immediately as obligated in their policy contract. Leadway is known for its reputation in service efficiency and customer reliability. I have enjoyed impeccable customer reception since I started dealing with the brand. They make use of efficient, timely, and customer-oriented people in their dealings which in turn promotes customer satisfaction. It is this kind of excellent experience that creates and sustains any enterprise. As a business owner, I understand the precepts behind building any sustainable brand. The brand must communicate and express intrinsic values that not only provides customer satisfaction but continually sustains it. Such is my experience with the Leadway brand. I have had peace of mind for twenty years with this brand. I have enjoyed superior service and also emulated from their work culture. I recommend them all the time to my friends and associates because if I can enjoy a stress-free relationship with an insurance company, others should too. The Leadway brand has done right for itself, and I enjoin them to outperform their milestones. They should keep it up. To join the league of happy customers like Otunba Oyeleke, please call us on 08088578050 or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for details.