Nike Popoola The International Monetary Fund’ growth forecast for 2020 that was revised downward to two per cent from 2.5 per cent for Nigeria could have been influenced by the impact of coronavirus and security challenges among other issues, experts have said. A former President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Dr Sam Nzekwe, said the outbreak of coronavirus in China was a major thing that could have informed the thinking of the IMF to cut down on the gross domestic product growth rate of the country. He said, “What must have informed the IMF thinking is corona virus from China because our main source of earning is the oil and if China is out of business and those people cannot export, it is going to have effect on the whole world economy. “Some people cannot sell, some cannot get spare parts, and that can cause a fall in demand of oil and it will affect the economy. Having that in mind, there is no way it will not affect, because when the income falls, and there is no money to fund the budget, it will affect the economy.” The Director-General, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Mr Richard Borokini, said fiscal and economic factors could affect the growth rate. He said, “The rising insecurity problem in Nigeria can hinder investors from coming in. They will be bothered about the security of their investment and this is not limited to certain part of the country. It is spreading to other parts of the country.” An IMF staff team led by Senior Resident Representative and Mission Chief for Nigeria, Amine Mati, when it visited Lagos and Abuja from January 29 to February 12, 2020 to conduct its annual Article IV Consultation discussions on Nigeria’s economy,  berated the country’s growth. He stated, “The pace of economic recovery remains slow, as declining real incomes and weak investment continue to weigh on economic activity. Inflation—driven by higher food prices—has risen, marking the end of the disinflationary trend seen in 2019. “External vulnerabilities are increasing, reflecting a higher current account deficit and declining reserves that remain highly vulnerable to capital flow reversals. The exchange rate has remained stable, helped by steady sales of foreign exchange in various windows. “High fiscal deficits are complicating monetary policy. Weak non-oil revenue mobilisation led to further deterioration of the fiscal deficit, which was mostly financed by Central Bank of Nigeria overdrafts. The interest payments to revenue ratio remains high at about 60 per cent. “Under current policies, the outlook is challenging. The mission’s growth forecast for 2020 was revised down to two per cent to reflect the impact of lower international oil prices. Inflation is expected to pick up, while deteriorating terms of trade and capital outflows will weaken the country’s external position.” It added that “Recognising these vulnerabilities, the authorities have taken a number of welcome steps. These include measures to boost revenue through the adoption of the Finance Bill and Deep Offshore Basin Act and; and improve budget execution by adopting the 2020 budget by end-December 2019. “ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     