Peter Dada No fewer than 22 students of the Achievers University, Owo, Ondo State have been rusticated following their involvement in examination malpractices. The Pro Chancellor of the university, Mr Bode Ayorinde disclosed this on Friday at the 13th matriculation of the university held on the campus of the institution. Ayorinde, a former member of the House of Representatives, who represented Owo/Ose Federal Constituency,  declared that the university had zero tolerance for indiscipline and would not hesitate to deal with any student who violated the rules and regulations of the school. He said, “Twenty-two students were recently rusticated for cheating during examination. Our certificates are not for sale. Though we are a private university, we don’t want to know the amount of money you have paid or about to pay. We will dismiss you if you go against the rules of the university. “ A total of 384 new students were matriculated into six faculties of the institution. Addressing the new students, the founder of the university urged the students to focus on their studies and shun all activities that could distract them from graduating with good grades. He said, “This is a transformation process for you. Make a choice if you want to end well. The only enemy you have is yourself. You need to be discipline. Set a target for yourself, determine what you want for yourself. Be systematic in your study and set goals for yourself.” He assured parents of the readiness of the institution to mould the students and make them great in society after graduating from the school. “To our parents, we will not betray that trust you have in us. We will mould them and make them useful. “We are embarking on massive infrastructure of the university and I assure you that more academic programmes will soon be added.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    