Feyisayo Popoola Berger Paints Plc has revealed plans to enter into a strategic partnership with the Lagos State Government on infrastructural projects. The company said in a statement that the partnership might result in the establishment of a paint academy, where it would support the government in the area of skill acquisition on mutually agreeable terms and conditions. The Chairman, Berger Paints, Mr Abi Ayida, explained that the company had been operating optimally and profitably despite the challenging business environment because of its innovative policy, dynamic board and management and tested human capital. He said the company had a lot to support the government in the execution of its infrastructural projects, especially road and real estate. Ayida said, “Berger Paints is the only paint manufacturing company in Nigeria actively operating in the four key segments ― decorative and architectural coatings, marine and protection coating, automotive vehicle refinishes and  wood finishes. “The company recently completed its fully automated water-based paint factory, which has adequate capacity for large volume production with derived benefits of increasing local capacity,  thereby reducing importation of finished products and consequently strengthening the naira. “The new fully-automated factory is expected to activate the industrialisation era of the paint sector in Nigeria.” The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, commended the company for coming at the right time when the state government was giving priorities to infrastructure development. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzart, assured the company of the government’s willingness and preparedness to partner them for development projects, including capacity building. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com