Going by government’s official statistics, about 20.9 million Nigerians were without jobs as of the third quarter of 2018. Apart from this figure, about four million men and women enter the workforce, with only a small fraction of them being able to find formal and gainful employment. Experts are of the view that the growing unemployment figure is a confirmation that growth in the economy is still weak and not inclusive. According to them, the chief driver of the economy, which is the oil sector, is not employment-elastic, and there is a need to stimulate growth in sectors that have strong linkages to job creation such as manufacturing, construction, information and communication technology and agriculture. They said this would entail massive investments in infrastructure and putting in place measures to ensure that these sectors are able to access credits at single-digit interest rate. In view of the huge number of youths entering into the labour market each year, analysts are of the view that the government should focus on investing in entrepreneurial education and skills acquisition programmes in order to reduce the current high unemployment rate of about 23 per cent. Within the last two years, over 450,000 Nigerians have been trained in various skills acquisition programmes by the Industrial Training Fund. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, gave the figure at the closing ceremony of the National Industrial Skills Development Programme where more than 11,000 youths were equipped with start-up packs by the ITF. The NISDP is one of the numerous skills acquisition intervention programmes introduced and implemented by the ITF to reduce unemployment through acquisition of skills. Mustapha said that the Federal Government would do everything necessary to ensure that the entrepreneurial capacities of Nigerian youths are developed and fully utilised in a manner that would take the economy to a path of sustainable development. He noted that the Federal Government had been implementing various social investment programmes, adding that time had come to harness the potential of the youths for them to contribute meaningfully to the growth of the national economy as entrepreneurs. In tackling youth unemployment, he said the government was building mechanisms and institutionalised processes, especially in the informal sector. This, he said, would give the Nigerian youth assurances that their energy and dynamism can be invested in making Nigeria a very productive nation. To ensure that the youths can be provided support to translate the acquired skills to poverty-reducing and job-creating opportunities, he said the government, through the Central Bank of Nigeria, was providing funding to key sectors of the economy. He said, “To effectively tackle poverty and unemployment, we need people to be equipped with requisite skills for increased production and delivery of goods and services. “A direct effect of a skilled population, especially among the youths, would translate to a drastic reduction in social vices such as drug abuse, kidnapping and banditry.” Since the commencement of the NISDP, over 200,000 Nigerians have been trained in various trade areas by the ITF. The Director-General, ITF, Joseph Ari, said through the NISDP programme, the ITF had been able to train young Nigerians in about nine trade areas. The trade areas are leather works (shoe and bag making), welding and fabrication, catering and event management, tiling, production and laying of interlock tiles. Others are furniture making, domestic electrical wiring and installation, solar energy installation, plumbing and pipefitting, and beauty care. But the ITF boss said given the intensity and the very practical nature of the training, which was 80 per cent practical and 20 per cent theory, participants were equipped with the necessary skills and attitude for them to thrive as entrepreneurs. He said when tied with the trades, which according to him were chosen after careful and in-depth need analysis of their locales, the management of ITF had no doubt that they would thrive. This, he said, was based on the conviction that the trades that the participants had learned would always be needed. He said, “Our commitment to skills acquisition is premised on the fact that it remains the most viable and sustainable solution to rising unemployment and poverty that have continued to defy the best efforts of governmental and non-governmental approaches. “There are countless reasons for us to worry as government, and as institutions vested with the arduous task of equipping Nigerians with the life skills for employability and entrepreneurship. “There is no doubt that unemployment has wrought a terrible damage on all facets of our national life. No reasonable analysis will divorce unemployment from the needless incidents of violence that have claimed thousands of lives across the nation.” Ari said it would be difficult to separate rising criminality and harmful social vices being perpetrated by Nigerians from unemployment and the attendant poverty. “Consequently, our population that ordinarily should be a resource, may become an albatross if we cannot provide a greater proportion of our population with a source of livelihood,” he added. He said despite the current economic challenges, the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), had made tremendous effort to create jobs. He said there were visible evidence of the Federal Government’s efforts to get Nigerians engaged in meaningful economic ventures. This, according to him, is being achieved through various social investment programmes and the numerous skills acquisition programmes being implemented by the ITF and other organisations with similar mandates. The ITF boss said, “What the Federal Government is doing is clearly not enough in view of the magnitude of the unemployment confronting us. “I will therefore seize this opportunity to appeal to state governments, the organised private sector, non-governmental organisations, faith-based organisations, politicians and other stakeholders to collaborate with the ITF in our efforts to train Nigerians.” The President, Nigerian Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, Hajiya Saratu Aliyu, lamented the high unemployment rate in the country, saying the number of unemployed people rose from 3.5 million in 2010 to about 21 million as of the last quarter of 2018. According to her, based on the data provided by government, it can be inferred that there are 23 million people unemployed in Nigeria. In contradiction, the NACCIMA boss said while the level of unemployment rate continued to rise, businesses across the country continued to face difficulty in filling job openings with skilled workers. She said, “The dangers that unemployment brings to any country are well documented; the issues of insecurity and rising crime that face Nigeria are currently the focus of national discourse.” Aliyu said the creation of Model Skills Training Centres would help to provide the requisite skills currently needed to meet the expectations of the industrial sector. The Director-General, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Forum Dr Timothy Olawale, said through training, a solid foundation had been set for the youths by the ITF. He said, “We need to empower our youth by giving them vocational training. Gone are those days when those on vocational training were treated with disdain. We have come to realise that the future of Nigeria depends on vocational training, and the sustainability of Nigeria depends on vocational training. “One of the reasons why industries are struggling is the death of technical skills. Employees lack sound technical training and this has made the private sector to shout loud and clear that government should invest massively in technical schools development so that graduate there will be those who are ready and fit for work rather than having those with textbook knowledge.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   