The Nigeria Football Federation has debunked news that former Super Eagles player, Daniel Amokachi, has been appointed the new Technical Director of the football body. The NFF insisted that Bitrus Bewarang remained the Technical Director of the federation, and that at no time did the body call for applications from candidates for his position. The news of Amokachi’s alleged appointment broke on Monday, with the ex-footballer himself celebrating it on his instagram page, but the NFF has refuted such claims, stating there is no iota of truth in it. “This clarification becomes necessary against the background of wide-circulating but totally misleading reports of the appointment of Daniel Amokachi, a former Super Eagles captain and coach, as head of NFF Technical Department,” Chairman of the NFF Technical and Development Committee, Yusuf Ahmed, said in Abuja on Wednesday. “The NFF has been bemused by this unfounded story, which no doubt must have embarrassed Mr. Amokachi himself.” Ahmed also commended the appointment Amokachi as an ambassador of Nigerian football by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), saying, “Amokachi richly deserves this appointment as someone who served our dear nation meritoriously on the field of play as a player and coach.” NFF’s Director of Communications, Ademola Olajire, added, “While the NFF does not and will not foreclose the possibility of a major role for Amokachi in the federation in the future, the truth is that presently, such an appointment has not been made.” “Amokachi no doubt deserves all the regard and respect befitting his new role as an ambassador. He should not be dragged into needless controversies such as this. The NFF, once more, enjoins the generality of the media to retain the important work ethic of fact-checking and verification, and beware of empty wildfires lit by obscure online cells that lack any iota of credibility.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 