Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt Some stakeholders in the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress met on Friday in Port Harcourt, the state capital, and agreed that it was time to resolve the crisis rocking the party. One of the stakeholders of the party, Mr Igo Aguma, observed that the APC at the state level was collapsing under the watch of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Aguma told journalists that the party must be rescued from the hands of the former governor of the state, adding that Amaechi was appropriating the party for his selfish gain. He called on the national leadership of the party to take a special look at the APC in Rivers State, maintaining that it was currently an abandoned ship. Aguma stated, “We are calling on the National Executive Council of the party to take a special look into Rivers State. We were, up until now, like an abandoned ship. We’ve decided to start doing things by ourselves and to call the attention of the NEC to our plight in Rivers State. “One man cannot manipulate the party for his personal benefit. Ask yourself why we did not do direct primaries. Everybody knows it is the solution for every party that has a series of court cases. That was offered to us as party, but our leader rejected it. “He is appropriating the party for his own selfish gain. He is a minister today in spite of the fact that we failed woefully in Ikwerre LGA. It was zero vote. Even though he brought in (Biokpomabo) Awara, he brought zero to the table. “Already, the party (state APC) is collapsing on his head. The entire world now knows what he is doing. He says he is the leader, but the party has collapsed.” Also, a stalwart of the party in Port Harcourt, Lasbury Amadi, assured members of the APC that the crisis rocking the party in the state would be resolved. He said, “There is going to be peace in Rivers APC before 2023. If the first son does not behave in a manner that the father will understand, then there will be no wife for that son. “Our own decision is, let us win elections and we have never conducted ourselves in such a way that will show that we are ready to win elections. We all know our history in this state; we know our levels.” But a chieftain of the APC, Nnamdi Wuche, disagreed with Aguma, insisting that more members were joining the party in the state. Wuche said, “Most of the people that came to that meeting were not APC members. They are not politicians. The APC in Port Harcourt has dissociated itself from Aguma. It is not true that the party is collapsing. Rather, more people are joining the APC in the state because of Amaechi.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    