Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe and Bola Bamigbola Traders at Mile 12 Market, Kosofe, Lagos, and Oke Omiru Sawmill and Plank Market, Osun State, were in distress on Thursday after fire destroyed their wares and equipment. PUNCH Metro learnt that goods estimated at millions of naira were lost in the incidents. Five shops were said to have been gutted by fire at Mile 12. Our correspondents gathered that the fire, which started around 5.30am on Thursday, began from one of the shops after power was restored in the area. It was learnt that the fire was caused by electrical surge and affected the raw food and frozen item section of the market. One of our correspondents was told that the Bolade Fire Station was deployed in the scene. The Head of Public Affairs of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Nosa Okunbor, said the source of the fire was isolated and disconnected to avoid a secondary incident. He said, “The Mile 12 Market fire, which was put out around 7.47am, recorded no loss of life or injuries. However, five shops operated by three owners were destroyed by the inferno.” Our correspondent was told that the Oke Omiru Sawmill and Plank Market in Osun State was gutted by fire on Wednesday night. A branch of the Redeemed Christian Church of God in the market, planks and machines said to be worth millions of naira, were also destroyed by the fire. The Osun Police Public Relatrions Officer, Folasade Odoro, said the command deployed men in the scene to prevent looting. She added that no life was lost to the inferno, which started around 10pm. When contacted, the Administrative Officer of the Osun Fire Service, Fatai Aremu, said the timely arrival of firefighters prevented the fire from spreading. He said, “The cause of the fire is still unknown, as no one is ready to tell our men the actual cause. A Mack trailer loaded with planks was saved from the inferno. “Nevertheless, the loss was still huge because the fire affected the sawmill substantially before our men were contacted.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  