Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr My personal view of how we can advance tech-wise is not necessarily the number of smartphone users or the number of people on social media. I tend to look at things more differently and for me, statistics such as how many young Nigerians are actively profiting from the digital economy or how many jobs have been created by start-ups leveraging technology to solve problems is one of them. While other developments such as the number of users and the likes are important, they are secondary in my humble opinion. In this column, on January 12, 2020, I wrote on the topic, “Expectations for tech in Nigeria this year”. In that piece, I stated clearly some basic things that needed to be done in a bid to grow the ecosystem at an exponential rate but then, without certain supportive infrastructure firmly put in place, all those expectations that I mentioned in that piece would not come to fruition. Sound and solid infrastructure are the primary drivers of all the economies around the world as the availability of certain key infrastructures are determinants of growth in countries all over the world. On this side of the globe, we have had to contend with a lot of infrastructural deficiencies and this has continued to hinder our growth as a people over the years. It is not encouraging to note that most of our infrastructure built in the 1960’s and 1970’s are now dilapidated and moribund, while many others are outright obsolete. Many are also abandoned, halfway into being built and these today are what we refer to as white elephant projects. Moreso, our maintenance culture in Nigeria is nothing to write home about. Most of the infrastructure we build requires maintenance at some point to keep them in shape to enable them to continue to deliver positively for the progress of the country, through their usage.  All these will always hinder our progress and achievements in technological feats. It is obvious that Nigeria is reaping, only a fraction of what it should in terms of the potential that abound in its digital economic ecosystem and will need to develop and implement strategies that will drive up investments to develop a dynamic and transformative digital economy. The bottom line is that we should build the necessary infrastructure that we need, to move us forward and device a system of maintenance culture to keep the ecosystem going. Two key infrastructures required to be put in place are the provision of broadband connectivity across the country and then electricity. It is no gainsaying the fact that these two critical infrastructures have eluded Nigeria, thus far. Broadband connectivity and uninterrupted power supply should not, only, be provided, but these should come at cheaper rates, to make them accessible to many people. Taking the case of broadband connectivity that has eluded us, thus far, due to the Right of Way pricing controversy between the States and the telcos, which the states are pricing too high, for instance, it is unfortunate that, some states are pricing this, at very high rates. This has caused many of the telcos, to slow down on laying the required fibre cables, to enable the unleashing of the much-needed broadband connectivity, across the country. Good a thing, though that, the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, met with the State Governors in Abuja, on January 22, 2020. The meeting also had in attendance, Executive Vice Chairman/ CEO of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof. Umar  Danbatta,Director-General of the National Information Technology Development Agency, Kashifu Inuwa; and Chairperson of the Presidential Committee on National Broadband Plan, (2020-2025), Funke Opeke. The Honourable Minister at the meeting stated the benefits that broadband connectivity will bring to the states and urged them to maintain a maximum Right of Way charge of N145 per linear metre of fibre, which had earlier been agreed upon at the 2013 National Economic Council meeting, of which the governors were part of.  It is interesting to note that the Chairman of the Governors Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on behalf of the other governors, has assured the Honourable Minister at the meeting that this will be adhered to. We wait to see how this goes in the next few months when the telcos continue with the laying of fibre. The other key infrastructure that is required to  enable the ecosystem to work seamlessly is uninterrupted power supply. When the power generation and distribution aspects of the power sector in Nigeria was about to be sold to private concerns some years back, we all breathed a sigh of relief that, thinking that at least, we will now be having uninterrupted power supply. Fast-forward to the present day, many of use are disillusioned as the story is still one told of constant power cuts due to falling rates of power generation, issuance of ‘crazy’ bills, non-distribution of prepaid meters and in the unique case of Enugu Disco, the attempted discontinuation of prepaid billing. There is, also, the constant threat of increase in charges per kilowatt of use. All these are not helping the growth in the ecosystem, as we still depend heavily on powering through generators that are run by diesel and petrol and these do not come cheap. Government should ensure that, the gencos and discos that purchased the stakes in the power sector are alive to their responsibilities and further decentralizlse the power sector, to allow more players to come in, with other means of power generation, particularly renewable energy. The growth of the digital economy, rests on five fundamental pillars and if these pillars are not adequately harnessed the full impact of its growth will not be felt. These concepts include digital infrastructure, digital platforms, digital financial services, digital entrepreneurship and digital skills. It is obvious that infrastructure is the superstructure on which the other four pillars of digital economy rests on. “Realising the full benefits of the digital economy, requires Nigeria to focus, on accelerating improvements in five fundamental pillars of the digital economy and to further ensure that, the country is digitally enabled by 2030, investing in infrastructure to bridge the digital divide and creating an enabling regulatory environment for digital economy, to thrive is, of paramount importance”, the World Bank Country Director for Nigeria,  Shubham Chaudhuri, said.  CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 