As Nigeria’s Insurance Industry approaches its centennial, the sector can boast certain landmark achievements that have been instrumental to economic growth and improved Gross Domestic Product. In the past few decades, the industry has evolved significantly, adopting policies that not only protected investors but also deepened risk management practices, cemented operators’ underwriting capacity and engender the interest of individuals and organisations from various works of life. The industry has witnessed highs and lows, but the growth and reforms have been steady. Leadway Assurance, Nigeria’s leading composite insurance underwriter, has contributed to the growth and positive image equity building for the industry by maintaining an impeccable record in service efficiency and customer reliability. The organisation has sustained a competitive edge by continually improving all aspects of its business approach, especially in claims handling. In the past five years alone, Leadway Assurance paid a total of 110 Billion Naira in claims, the most substantial sum paid by a single insurer in the industry, to demonstrate its commitment to speedy client’s recovery and satisfaction in the face of loss. However, this legacy of responsive claims payment dates back to Leadway’s humble beginnings as an underwriting business, when it started working with brokers. In 1982, a brokerage firm invited the company to participate in the underwriting of some marine insurance businesses. It was an unprecedented move in Leadway’s history as it moved to stake capacity and market leadership on the industry. The marine industry is a very lucrative and capital-intensive industry to provide insurance underwriting and was only left to insurers with a solid capital base to cover the high risks associated with the business. In 1982, that capacity was tested as one its marine policies resulted in a claim worth a whopping one million United States Dollars! Despite the precarious nature of marine insurance, the claim was promptly and fully-paid, baffling industry watchers at the time. The success of this claim performance boosted Nigeria’s insurance industry reputation as responsible risk managers capable of contributing to businesses’ financial stability. This corporate action also opened a new vista of opportunities for Leadway that dramatically changed its business operations as it was able to penetrate other capital-intensive business sectors to underwrite big tickets risks. This solid financial repute continues to attract a diverse clientele and won admirers for its client-centric dispositions. Leadway’s claims payment ethos has become the foundation of its customer service delivery backed by superior capabilities to honour claims obligations to customers. This approach is hinged on the need to make the customer’s happiness a prioritised internal requirement, now etched into its core values. This commitment is still evident in its leadership in claims performance to date. In 2018 financial year, Leadway led its counterparts in claims payment indices with total claims of N33.8 billion paid to its customers. This figure represents a 23.4 percent increase from the N27.4 billion recorded in the corresponding period of 2017. Since its record-breaking claims payment 38 years ago, Leadway seems committed to changing how the industry creates value for its customers, especially in the face of possible financial loss. These numbers prove that the organisation always put its best foot forward for the customers. The team ensures maximum efforts go into ensuring excellent records in this stead. They stay resilient and undeterred in adopting dynamic business and marketing channels to deepen insurance penetration towards a rapid increase in market share and overall contribution to the country’s GDP. As Leadway counts down to celebrating fifty years of operational excellence, it plans to do more to take the benefits of insurance to more Nigerians and the West Africa market corridors. To find out how you can manage risk around your business and households through Leadway’s bouquet of product offerings, please call us on 08088578050 or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for details.