Sunday Aborisade and Leke Baiyewu The National Assembly on Tuesday raised the alarm over the alleged plan by Boko Haram insurgents to attack the facility. The House of Representatives, at a plenary on Tuesday, mandated the Committee on Internal Security of the National Assembly to inquire into the attack scare. The resolution was passed following the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by Mr Shehu Beji, who called for overhauling of security in and around the building. The PUNCH had on February 13, 2020, reported that the security committee set up by the National Assembly management had expressed fears about suspicious people coming into the complex in recent times. The committee set up by the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori, was said to have recommended that “arm-bearing elite force be established for the National Assembly”. Beji, while moving the motion, made reference to media reports on February 13, indicating that Boko Haram terrorists might attack the National Assembly, according to intelligence report gathered by the management. The lawmaker said, “The House recalls that barely a few months ago, precisely at the tail of 2019, the National Assembly Complex was attacked by certain resented religious group culminating in loss of lives and properties. READ ALSO: Bandits kill police inspector in Niger “The House is disturbed that from the previous attack under reference, the security apparatus of the National Assembly is obviously below the threshold required for its protection. The House is worried that the degree of insecurity in the country speaks volume of the likelihood of such attack in a greater magnitude if we fail to be proactive.” Still on the terror threat, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila on Tuesday held a meeting with heads of security institutions in the country. Lawan asked the top security officials to beef up security at the National Assembly to avert any attack. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 