Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party on Sunday said it would adhere to the party’s constitution in the selection of its officers in the upcoming party congress and not on consensus among aspirants. The PDP State Publicity Secretary, Jackson Adebayo, said the party was not part of last week’s meeting convened at the behest of a group led by a former governor of the state, Mr Ayodele Fayose, where the idea of a consensus chairmanship candidate was allegedly mooted. The PDP congress where new party officers from the ward to state levels would emerge is scheduled to hold between March 7 and April 4. Adebayo, in a statement in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, said, “The meeting which took place at Senator Clement Awoyelu’s residence in Ado Ekiti, where the issue on consensus chairmanship candidate for the party came up, did not enjoy the approval of the party in the state, hence it is declared an aberration and whatever decision taken there is null and void.” The PDP cautioned party leaders against engaging in meetings capable of causing confusion and disharmony among the party members, saying, “any leader who does this has a motive that is aimed at bringing the party to its knees.” But Fayose’s media aide, Lere Olayinka, said, “We won’t join them in the advertisement of their hatred for the survival of the PDP in Ekiti State. But the question I will like to ask is; why is Adebayo as the state publicity secretary always quicker to react to issues within the party than to act as the mouthpiece of the opposition in the state? “A lot has happened in this state – 3,000 workers have been sacked. What has Adebayo said as the PDP Publicity Secretary? He has not said anything.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    