Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The former Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, Adedayo Adeyeye, and his successor, Senator Biodun Olujimi, have renewed hostilities over the outcome of the 2019 senatorial election. The Independent National Electoral Commission had returned Adeyeye of the All Progressives Congress as winner of the election, but the Elections Petitions Tribunal and the Appeal Court, in unanimous judgments, nullified his election and declared Olujimi of the Peoples Democratic Party winner. Adeyeye has since returned to the Appellate Court to seek a review of the judgment, a move which Olujimi described as an enterprise in futility. The former senator had, while speaking on a television programme monitored in Ado Ekiti, on Tuesday, said he was seeking a review because he believed the judgment sacking him was error-ridden. He, said, “When you find out that an election is fraught with irregularities and, of course, my election is never fraught with irregularities, the remedy that is available is already in Section 140 Subsection 2 of the Electoral Act. They went against that, which is that you don’t declare any winner, and awarded victory to her. “All you will say is to go for a rerun election, but they went as far as to declare a winner, because they know if they conduct this election 100 times, I will always win. My opponent is afraid, including her conspirators, that I will always win, any time, any day. If they declare another election now, I will win with a wider margin. “They have disenfranchised the entire people of Ekiti South and it is not fair to them. They know who they voted for. I am fighting now not for myself but for the people. The election is clean and I have told you the mathematical impossibilities that are contained in that judgment, like adding 37 and one to be 71, instead of 38.” Reacting to this development, Olujimi on Wednesday wondered why Adeyeye decided to embark on what she described as “a voyage of judicial rigmarole,” having lost at both the petitions tribunal and appeal court. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com