The Enugu State Government has given one month ultimatum to tricycle and motorcycle operators in Enugu North senatorial zone to obtain number plate and rider’s permit. The senatorial zone comprises Igboeze North and South Local Government Areas, Igboetiti, Nsukka, Udenu, and Uzouwani council areas The state Commissioner for Transport, Chief Matthias Ekweremadu, gave the directive in Nsukka on Wednesday, at an interactive forum with the National Union of Road Transport Workers and the tricycles and motorcycles associations in the zone. The commissioner warned that failure to do so would attract sanctions including impounding of their tricycles and motorcycles. Ekweremadu noted with dismay that over 60 per cent of tricycles and motorcycles operating in the zone had no numbers plate and rider’s permit, which he described as “illegal and unacceptable.” “All operators of tricycles and motorcycles in the zone are given one month from today, February 5 to get their numbers plate and rider’s permit from the state government or their tricycles and motorcycles will be impounded by the ministry. “Operators should also have correct paper particulars of their tricycles and motorcycles as well as ensure that their side mirrors are functioning well, while plying on roads,” he said. He explained that the rider’s permit which was an equivalent of driving licence was approved by the Enugu State government in 2019 for all tricycles and motorcycles operators in the state. “The rider’s permit lasts for three years before renewal and the cost is N6,000. “If you want to get your numbers plate and rider’s permit, come to the ministry of transport in Enugu or its office in Nsukka local government. “Your plate number identifies you as the owner of a tricycle or motorcycle and if it is stolen the number will help the law enforcement agencies to recover it. “Without rider’s permit you are plying on the road illegally and in the case of an accident, you will be jailed because you are not licensed to ply the road,” he said. (NAN)