Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senate and the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, met on Thursday to harmonise positions on the implementation of a community policing policy that would involve governors and traditional institutions and groups in the provision of security. The IG in an interview with journalists after the meeting, confirmed that the police was convinced that they need to involve the states,  local governments and traditional institutions to tackle the menace. He said, “I appeared before the Senate and briefed them on the concept of community policing. “Let the community take the initiative in identifying the problems that are there that can lead to the commission of crime and then we work with the community to solve the crime. “Taking policing back to the community will help in reducing crime to the barest minimum. “So, I have explained the concept of community policing to the Senate which involves  partnership with communities and there are various communities. “You can have traditional institutions as a community. You can have the National Union of Road Transport Workers as a community. “If you are talking about partnership we are talking about problem solving. “We need to solve problems that evolve in the community. “What we mean here is that we scan the community to find out what are the indices that can lead to the commission of crime or a crime that has been committed already.” The IG insisted  that security issues were not supposed to be rigid but dynamic in line with international best practices. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, also confirmed that the Senate agreed to formulate a legislative initiative that would legalise the implementation of the community policing to tackle insecurity. Lawan said,  “The IG answered questions  bordering on national security challenges, banditry, and assaults  on  our major roads across the country. “The Senate thereafter  resolved to support the Nigeria Police through legislative interventions. “The police force must find a way to be more  operationally  proactive to protect  the lives of the citizens.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   