Punch Editorial Board Amazingly, as some academics publicly bemoan underfunding of tertiary institutions in the country, others indulge in the crass abuse of grants released to them for research and conferences by diverting them to their private pockets. It cannot be condoned in countries where education and competition for global greatness are taken seriously. Those involved in this theft are misfits in the academia, who should be flushed out and made to face the law for obtaining money by trick. At a capacity-building workshop for researchers in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, recently, the Director of Research Development, Tertiary Education Trust Fund, Salihu Bakare, disclosed that this anti-intellectual practice of embezzling grants for groundbreaking and demand-driven research was common in the universities and other tertiary institutions. The unacceptable abuse is not limited to individuals, but extends to team or group researchers. TETFund found that funds had been used to build houses and purchasing cars. Another variant of this delinquency is the failure to apply for funds set aside to assist public tertiary institutions in journals publication. In 2019, just 26 out of 220 of them applied for the grant. TETFund is an interventionist agency, established in 1993, known then as the Education Tax Fund. It manages, disburses and monitors the annual education tax, being two per cent on the assessable profit of all registered companies in Nigeria. With its grants, institutions are expected to improve their physical infrastructure, instructional materials and equipment; embark on research and publication, and academic staff training. Having done considerably well in infrastructural renewal in public universities, polytechnics and colleges of education, Bakare says the organisation has now shifted focus to helping them to enrich or develop their content, embodied in grants for research, publications and post-graduate training. Universities do not exist only for teaching. Research and publications are also critical elements of their existence, which enhance knowledge production and innovation that underpin prosperity in Europe, America and other developed parts of the world. Lamar Alexander and Hunter Rawlings III, former presidents of the University of Tennessee and Cornell University respectively, in a joint article in Politico, confirmed this much, even as they expressed concerns about the threat to research institutions in the face of dwindling grants. This was in 2012 when the US funding for research and development for universities and colleges was $30 billion. Instructively, they said, “Research is our secret weapon, our edge in an increasingly competitive world economy. Our universities, especially our 200 research universities, along with our national laboratories and private-sector research, constitute the greatest force for innovation in the world.” That is the truth. Other progressive societies tread this path to solve their problems in health, environment, security and economy. In the United Kingdom, for instance, The Telegraph reported that a team of researchers at the Imperial College, London had made a significant breakthrough in the production of a vaccine for the treatment of coronavirus by reducing the development time from “two to three years to just 14 days.” The TETFund abuse binge did not start now. After the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had debriefed its former Executive Secretary, Abdullahi Baffa, on the bazaar going on there, he directed the exclusion of its expenditure from the national budget in 2016 and 2017, until its financial template was sanitised. At a meeting with vice-chancellors, provosts and rectors of schools that benefit from the fund in 2017, Baffa noted that only N50 billion was properly released during the era “when special intervention fund was turned into something else.” A total of N200 billion released under questionable circumstances before he assumed office raised the red flag. He asserted that the money given to universities so far was enough for them to set up world-class libraries. But the outdated materials and lack of journals that characterise universities libraries prove another layer of financial mismanagement. Baffa said, “I have seen a request that was sent to the fund where a book that I know cost only N1,500 was said to have been procured at N150,000. This is how the institutions are squandering public funds.” The infamy should not continue. Nigeria is in the 21st Century, an era being driven by the fourth industrial revolution knowledge of artificial intelligence, autonomous vehicles, internet of things and nanotechnology. These define the future; and it appears the country might soon be left behind with the awful quality of universities it has. A university averse to research is simply an empty shell. When journals are not published, grants for research are unabashedly stolen; there is no way our universities can be reckoned with in the global rankings as the Webo Metrics annual reports indicate. Vice-Chancellors, governing councils of universities that should arrest the drift Bakare indicated, should be alive to their responsibilities. The Federal Government through the anti-graft agencies should act swiftly on this TETFund revelation in order to end the brazen culture of misappropriating research funds. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com