Peter Dada,  Akure The management of the Achievers University, Owo, Ondo State, has expelled six students of the institution over alleged involvement in cult activities. According to the institution, the students are Awolo David (Mass Communication); Owolabi James (Political Science); Oyeniran Temitope (Nursing Science); Yahaya Mohammed (Medical Lab Science); Owolabi Opeyemi (Computer Science) and Onagoruwa Oyinlola (Biochemistry). Speaking to journalists on the development on Thursday, the Vice-Chancellor of the varsity, Prof. Samuel Ibiyemi, said the institution took the action because of its zero tolerance for indiscipline. He noted that all the affected students were in 300 level, adding that their parents had also been informed. The don said, “Their expulsion from the university was premised on their involvement in cultism after all fair hearing and due process within the law establishing the institution. “The six students cease to be students of Achievers University, Owo. Anybody, individual or corporate, dealing with them as Achievers’ students does so at his or her own risk. “The management of the university has set up a fact-finding committee to conduct thorough investigation among the students to identify any other student involved in such illegal organisation. “The university council and management hereby shows by this effort its zero tolerance for cultism in Achievers University, Owo. The university is open to any information that is relevant for the discipline and proper grooming of our students.” Shortly after speaking to the press, the six students were handed over to the police for further investigation and prosecution. On the issue of the deadly Lassa fever, Ibiyemi stated that the school had been collaborating with the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, as part of efforts to prevent students from contracting the disease. “We have a team at the FMC; they advise us and we also advise our students on the ways to live hygienic lives, thereby keeping the disease away,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 