Abiodun Nejo and Daud Olatunji The Speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye, said on Tuesday the state legislature was on the same page with its counterparts in other states of the South-West on the bill for the establishment of Amotekun. The speaker, who spoke in Ado Ekiti, said, “The fact that Ekiti was the first to pass the bill into law, even when other states are still at different stages, doesn’t suggest there is a friction among the member states”. The bill, which was passed by Ekiti Assembly on Friday, is awaiting the assent of the state Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi. The Chairman, Conference of South-West Speakers, who is the speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, Bamidele Oleyeloogun, in an advertorial on Monday, said public hearing would be conducted on the bill simultaneously on February 24 in the South-West states. Oloyeloogun had stated, “Thereafter, the Conference of Speakers will reconvene to meet with the states’ attorneys-general to address all conflicting areas and to review the contents of the reports generated at the public hearings for harmonisation into the proposed law”. But Afuye said, “There is no confusion over the passage of the Amotekun bill into law in Ekiti. We (the Southwest states) are still going to run a uniform law and outfit at the end of the day. The fact that we have passed our own bill doesn’t mean we are no longer on the same page. “Let me also say this, Ekiti didn’t violate any procedure in the passage. The bill passed through first and second readings. We conducted a public hearing and the House Committee on Security considered it before it was passed at the plenary. “The law is going to be the same in all the states because the public we have in Ekiti is the same with what we have across the states, they are all Yoruba alongside other ethnic nationalities.” READ ALSO: Terrorists mustn’t be allowed to divide us – Buhari He added, “All the Speakers, including me, were at the meeting in Ibadan, Oyo State last weekend where we agreed on simultaneous public hearings in the respective states. But Ekiti had conducted its and it is valid.” Ogun Assembly holds debate, fixes Monday for public hearing The Ogun State House of Assembly on Tuesday began a debate on Western Nigeria Security Outfit, codenamed Amotekun. The bill, which was read by the acting Clerk of the Assembly, Deji Adeyemo, scaled the first reading. The Speaker, Kunle Oluomo, disclosed that the Assembly had fixed Monday for public hearing. Oluomo also invited all stakeholders and members of the public to the hearing which would hold at the Assembly Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. The Assembly received Amotekun Bill on Thursday after the approval by the State Executive Council. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 