Abiodun Nejo and Wale Oyewale The All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State on Thursday described as untrue reports that former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, had been endorsed as the party’s deputy national chairman. The APC State Chairman, Paul Omotoso, said nothing of such came up at the APC zonal meeting in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, where the purported endorsement was allegedly made. The party, in a statement by the state Director of Media and Publicity, Sam Oluwalana, insisted on its choice of a former Ekiti senator, Gbenga Aluko, to replace the immediate past occupant of the office, Niyi Adebayo, who is now the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment. The statement read, “At the meeting held in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, where the purported endorsement was made, there was no mention of any sort of endorsement. “We made our position clear that our state has to serve out its tenure and that we are endorsing Senator Gbenga Aluko for the position.” According to the statement, the South-West Chairman of the party, Pastor Bankole Oluwajana, received a petition, which the Ekiti APC submitted at the meeting and promised to forward to the national secretariat of the party. Meanwhile, the  leadership of the APC in Oyo State on Thursday urged the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and its National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to reject the nomination of Ajimobi as the Deputy National Chairman. The Oyo APC leaders, who rose against the purported nomination of Ajimobi at a caucus meeting held in Osogbo, reportedly stated that the choice of the former governor was unacceptable since he did not enjoy the majority support of the party leaders in the state. Addressing journalists after an emergency meeting of the APC leaders across the three senatorial districts in Ibadan, the spokesperson for the party leaders, Alhaji Fatai Ibikunle, urged the APC national leader to consult party leaders in the state in order to arrive at a popular choice. He said, “Our resolve is that our National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, should look for younger people who are more vibrant and intelligent rather than recycling the old wine in the new bottle. He (Ajimobi) can’t fit in. He was given a higher responsibility in the state and the whole party was in disarray.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   