Our Correspondents Unknown political thugs have set ablaze the office of the Independent National Electoral Commission at Orlu in Imo State. The incident, which happened in the early hours of Monday, had caused serious confusion in the state. The PUNCH gathered that the fire was not put off until it wreaked havoc on the secretariat. This is coming just one week after some yet to be arrested political thugs invaded the place, and stopped an ongoing collation process during the supplementary election in Orlu/Otsu/Our East federal constituency after tearing the result sheets. After three days, INEC completed the collation at its office in Owerri, the state capital, and declared Jerry Alagbaoso of the Peoples Democratic Party the winner. One of our correspondents learnt that the inferno destroyed the electoral umpire’s sensitive documents. The police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, said the state Commissioner of Police, Olaniyi Fafowora, had ordered investigation into the incident. He said, “The state commissioner of police has dispatched the operatives to the scene of the incident.” INEC probes Imo, Anambra fire Meanwhile, INEC has commenced investigation into the fire incident in Imo State, as well as the one in Anambra State. The commission also expressed concern over attempts by some individuals to paint its staff “with the brush of partisanship just to score political points,” after taking risks to conduct elections. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said this in a statement on Monday. “Two fire incidents were reported at INEC offices in the Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State and the Orlu Local Government Area of Imo State. The commission has reported the two incidents to the police and fire service in the respective states and investigations are underway to determine the causes. Although, no life was lost, the extent of the damage is still being assessed,” he stated. By: Friday Olokor and Chidiebube Okeoma Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    