OLALEYE ALUKO The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has unveiled integrated handwashing and sanitiser dispensing machine for use by schools as they prepare for resumption as directed by the Federal Government. Adeboye urged the schools to cooperate with the government and make an adequate provision for preventive measures against COVID-19. The cleric unveiled the machine fabricated by the Redeemer’s College of Technology and Management at the Redemption Camp, Mowe, Ogun State, saying it was in preparation for the much-anticipated resumption of schools in the country. He noted that he looked forward to the resumption of academic activities in the country. He said, “The machine which was fabricated as a measure to check the spread of the coronavirus in preparation for the reopening of schools has  features which include leg pedal designed to dispense soap, water and hand sanitiser; it has a water storage tank and also has a tissue paper holding device.” Addressing newsmen after the unveiling, the RECTEM Rector, Dr Stella Mofunanya, remarked that the college which had embarked on e-learning following the closure of schools occasioned by the spread of the pandemic, deployed the fabricated machines to all entrances to students’ halls of residence. “Others are lecture halls, laboratories, workshops among others. Adequate preparation for resumption has also been made with the production of customised nose masks, face shields in large quantity and the World Health Organisation-recommended alcohol-based hand sanitisers which would be distributed to the students and staff on resumption,” she said. Mofunanya assured the fumigation of the halls of residence, classes, laboratories and offices prior to reopening. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 