Friday Olokor, Abuja The Institute of Human Virology, Nigeria, and the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme have unveiled a mobile application for screening and notifying tuberculosis cases. A joint statement issued by IHVN and NTBLCP said the mobile application for tuberculosis screening was designed to find and treat more tuberculosis cases in Nigeria. The app, according to the statement, was redesigned by PharmAccess in line with the national TB algorithm, taking into consideration needs of community pharmacists, patent medicine vendors, traditional birth attendants, faith-based organisations and private-for-profit facilities who play critical roles in the screening of clients and referring them to designated facilities for diagnosis and treatment. The app is currently being used in Edo, Delta, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Benue, Oyo, Ondo, Osun, Ogun, Kogi, Niger, Sokoto, Plateau, Nasarawa, Kaduna, Anambra, Enugu, Rivers, Imo and Abia states. The Chief Executive Officer of IHVN, Dr. Patrick Dakum, said the application unveiled in June was a game-changer in the provision of real-time and online information on the progress made by private-for-profit facilities, faith-based organisation facilities, patent medicine vendors, community pharmacists, private laboratories and other TB referral entities. He said, “Since MATS was unveiled on June 1, 2020, there has been an increase in the TB screening efficiency and linkage between facility and community-based units. More than 19,000 people have been screened resulting in the identification of 1,286 TB presumptive individuals and 52 confirmed TB cases enrolled on treatment. “Private providers can download the app from the Google Play Store, register as a user and start using the app once activated by a TB treatment facility. All screening data from the various referral entities can be on the treatment facility’s dashboard and a summary on the mobile app.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 