Nike Popoola with agency report The Central Bank of Nigeria has debited about N900bn out of the local banking system since raising the cash reserve ratio by five per cent to 27.5 per cent in January, according to analysts’ calculations. Reuters quoted Nkemdilim Nwadialor at Tellimer Capital on Tuesday as saying that those debits also hampered wider lending, going against the CBN’s measures of lowering banks’ loan to deposit ratios. “General sentiment in the markets is that CRR debits are carried out quite close to forex auctions to prevent the banks from presenting large ticket FX demands at auctions,” she said. CBN’s data showed credit to the private sector in April dropped by nearly two-thirds from the end of 2019. “Banks are dealing with slow growth, fall in lending, a lack of forex in the market and asset quality issues,” said the Senior Director, EMEA Bank Ratings at Fitch, Mahin Dissanayake. He expected banks’ revenues to drop at least 20 per cent this year, though he did not expect any to make a loss. The CBN retained the benchmark lending rate at 12.5 per cent after its last Monetary Policy Committee meeting. It also retained the Cash Reserve Ratio and liquidity ratio at 27.5 per cent and 30 per cent respectively. Some banks had already indicated they expected a hit. In April, a mid-tier lender, Fidelity Bank, warned 2020 profits would drop by 15 per cent. Bankers said lenders were relying on existing customers to weather the storm as new lending looked risky with the economy expected to tip back into recession. Fitch predicted impaired loan ratios would rise sharply in 2020 with Nigerian banks the most exposed to stress in the oil sector compared to their peers in emerging markets elsewhere. Some banks had already announced plans to tackle this. A mid-tier lender, FCMB, plans to complete a restructuring of half its loan book at the end of April. A CBN policy maker predicted last month that banks would restructure over a third of loans. Moody’s warned in a note that dollar shortages would intensify over the next 12-18 months – a period when 49 per cent of banks’ $7bn foreign-currency borrowing matures, leaving them vulnerable. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 