Gbenga Odogun, and Peter DaviD The wife and son of a late former Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Zakawanu Garuba, kidnapped in Kogi State on Saturday have been released. Our correspondent gathered that the two victims were travelling from Abuja enroute Auchi, Edo State when they ran into the kidnappers along Lokoja-Abuja Road. The state Commissioner of Police, Ayuba Ede, said he dispatched his men to the scene. Ede said he got information of a kidnap around Okene, but could not confirm the exact situation. “Yes, I heard of a kidnap around Okene and, I have sent my policemen to the area to ascertain the correct position of things. “I do not know what happened exactly, so I cannot confirm what I don’t know. My men have gone their already,” said the CP. The ex-Edo speaker reportedly died in the early hours of Saturday. The late former Speaker’s wife, mother and driver, it was gathered, were on their way to the hometown of the deceased when the incident occurred. Their abductors were said to have let go of the deceased’s mother while his wife and son were whisked away. The state Police Public Relations Officer, William Aya, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, later told journalists that as soon as they got the information, “our men immediately swung into action and the three victims were rescued.” Meanwhile, Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, and the state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party have mourned Garuba’s death. Garuba (54), who was Speaker between 2007 and 2009, was said to have died in Abuja in the early hours of Saturday after a brief illness. Obaseki, in a statement, said the former Speaker’s death was “a deep personal loss to him.” He said, “I received the news of the passing of Rt. Hon. Zakawanu Garuba with a heavy heart. He was an outstanding Nigerian and a good man. “He worked for the good of the people and contributed his quota to the development of his immediate community and the state. “As Executive Commissioner, Corporate Services and Supervising Executive Commissioner, Operations at the Securities and Exchange Commission Nigeria, late Garuba performed brilliantly, distinguishing himself as a true Edo son with his commitment to duty, innovativeness and sheer dexterity. “As a politician and Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, he performed his tasks diligently, served the people meritoriously, and provided sterling leadership to the legislative arm of government. Also, the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr Chris Nehikhare, in a statement titled “We lost a very good man,” said the party was saddened over Garuba’s death. Born on 23 August 1965, in Akpekpe community, Auchi, in the Etsako West Local Government Area of the state, Garuba studied Law at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State and was called to Bar in 1990. Meanwhile, it was gathered that the deceased has been laid to rest on Saturday according to Islamic rites. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 