Deji Lambo The driver of a tanker conveying 33,000 litres of petrol to a destination  in Lagos State lost control of the vehicle while navigating a bend in the Alaluko area and the content spilled on the road around 5.14am on Thursday. This was just as another tanker conveying 33,000 litres of petrol developed a mechanical fault around 4.40am on the Ozumba Mbadiwe Street, Victoria Island, and also spilled its content on the road. The acting Head, Lagos State Fire Service, Margaret Adeseye, said emergency responders, including the Federal Road Safety Corps and the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority were on the ground to cordon off the areas and prevent secondary incidents. Explaining the events that led to the accidents, Adeseye said, “A 33,000-litre truck conveying Premium Motor Spirit from a private depot in Apapa was on its way to service the Enyo Petroleum filling station in Ajah and developed a mechanical fault around the 1004 Estates and tilted and spilled its content. “Firemen from the Lekki Phase 1 station were mobilised to the scene to blanket the spilled content with chemical foam compound to avert a secondary incident. The fumes that could have triggered fire were doused, while the remnant of the content was trans-loaded into another tanker. “The broken down truck was later towed off the road by officials of the Lekki Concession Company to complement the efforts of the traffic officers.” For the Alakuko incident involving a tanker with number plate FST 32 XL, Adeseye stated that the driver lost control while negotiating a bend at the roundabout inward the Sango tollgate, adding that the content spilled on the road. “The Agege Fire Station salvaged the situation and oversaw the trans-loading of the remnant petrol into another tanker with number plate MUS 52 XP. The tanker, which was on its way from Apapa to Master Energy PFS, Ekoro in the Oke Odo area of Alimosho, was later towed away to ensure free flow of traffic,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 