Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. It is no longer news that Africa is slowly growing in terms of technology adoption and this can be attributed to the improvement in access, growing number of tech start-ups and the huge investments that are being funneled into the start-up ecosystem. The growing threat of cybersecurity breaches can, however, no longer be ignored in Africa as many Africans are leaving themselves exposed to the whims and caprices of hackers. Cybersecurity experts in Africa are just a handful and much information that borders about how small business owners that rely massively on technology to push their products and services, can protect themselves and avoid data breaches is still low. The evolution of technology has seen a massive growth of disruptive technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, space colonisation, 3D printing, medical innovations, high-speed travel, robotics and blockchain technology. These technologies have greatly changed the world but it has also created loopholes that hackers are now exploiting, to wreak havoc in the digital space. In 2017, the global WannaCry ransomware attack not only affected businesses in Europe and North America but several businesses in Africa were massively affected by what was known as ‘Crypto Worm’. The perpetrators (hackers) used the Crypto Worm to encrypt data on computers running on the Windows operating system and when this is done, the victims were asked to make payment in the Bitcoin cryptocurrency before the encrypted data will be unlocked. Just a few days ago, there was massive global data breach on the Twitter accounts of Jeff Bezos, Barack Obama, Bill Gate, Elon Musk, as well as other influencers, Hollywood actors. Their Twitter accounts were hacked and the hackers deceived unsuspecting innocent people to part with their hard earned money by paying in Bitcoins and getting back triple the amount they paid. It is now on record that this serial hacking campaign that totaled over $150,000, in bitcoins, is the biggest cybercrime heist ever carried out via cryptocurrency. In its yearly report for 2020, which borders around cybersecurity predictions, Deloitte, a consulting and financial advisory outfit, predicted as follows, “The main targets for cyber-attackers, will be the cloud-based systems, user mobile devices, IoTs and Small & Medium Enterprises, as well as organisations in the non-financial sector. “Organisations with cloud-based infrastructure will be exposed, due to misconfigured cloud-infrastructures, mobile devices will be exposed to more sophisticated phishing attacks that could convince, even, the most security-conscious individuals and lastly, SMEs will be exposed, due to their unpreparedness,” the report further reads. The magnitude of cybersecurity attacks expected this year will indeed be unprecedented, the pressing questions are, how prepared are Africans, in terms of countering these cyber security threats? What should Africans be doing now, to avoid being attacked by cybercriminals? Do Africans have to depend on the government for structured guidance, on cybersecurity? Do Africans need to start getting themselves equipped with the necessary knowledge and tools that will further protect their businesses? Legislation and regulation from the government are crucial, to enable the rights of citizens on the Internet and further protect them from cyber crimes, likewise, the unauthorized access to and use of personal data. It is about time that Africans understand how to protect themselves and ensure their data privacy. Here is the flip side of it. Just as technology is growing and newer methods of detecting cyber attacks are improving, so are hackers too. They are growing and increasing their knowledge base, about, in and around technology, which will invariably help them to detect the loopholes, of which they will maximize and wreak damaging havoc, before the loophole is discovered. Despite the simple fact that the Internet has created new job opportunities, cyber crimes have grown, enormously and this has affected the growth of African economies, costing it an estimated $2 billion every year. Every year, cyber crimes-related issues, cost the South African economy, an estimate of, over $573m, the Nigerian economy, over $200m and the Kenyan economy, over $36m. All over Africa, the prevalent issues of cyber security and attacks that borders on security risks, infringement on intellectual properties and protection of personal data, are on the increase. These attacks, are not only focused on Africans, but are coordinated attacks that have spread into the United States and Europe too. These are growing issues and many of the African governments, lack the technical impetus and financial strength to, effectively, monitor all the internet-related communications that might prove to be cyber-attack breaches. In 2014, the African Union adopted the Convention on Cyber security and Personal Data Protection but by January 2020, only 14 of the 55 African Union member states had appended their signatures on it and only seven had ratified it. Before this policy can be adopted by the AU, it will require that at least, 15 members states append their signatures and ratify it. It is hope that, one more country in Africa will append its signature to it, so that the African Union can adopt it. According to Digital transformation and Cyber Security Lead, at Finetech Group, Baidy Sy, “African countries should invest more in raising awareness and training end-users, who are as always the weakest link in the chain.” Taking your business online is cool. It is time for both large and small businesses in Africa to start investing massively in modern cybersecurity surveillance tools and technologies that will swiftly help to detect and rapidly respond to or report security breaches. Understanding the dangers associated with leaving your online business unprotected is now an essential point to note as a start-up founder that will rely solely on technology to sell your products and services. Africa is still growing and has the potential to become the technological hub of the world, due to its population but until we learn to effectively handle cybersecurity issues and rid ourselves of the tag of the home of cybercriminals, the world will unfortunately  look at us with suspicion. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com