June 2020 witnessed an intense rainfall across the country that left Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, and Edo states with a devastating aftermath flooding. The social media was awash with stories, photos and videos of flooded homes, streets, and businesses premises, and of sordid tales about missing individuals and relatives and the lives that were lost as well as properties damaged. The thought of adding devastating floods to the prevailing pains of COVID-19 pandemic on healthcare and businesses is unimaginable. Sadly, it remains a stark reality for many in Lagos and some parts of the country. Worse still, many might have to live with this reality for the better part of the year 2020. In January, the Nigerian Meteorological Agency predicted that the country would endure a prolonged rainy season this year, with Lagos expected to experience a rainy season of 240-270 days. When you take into cognition, there are 365 days in a year, that is almost a whole year of downpour and potential flooding. This early warning announcement is expected to help stakeholders take precautionary steps to avoid an unpleasant outcome. The Lagos State Government asked those in flood-prone communities to relocate to the higher ground temporarily. If that is impossible, there is a need to insulate your home, valuables, and business assets from the risk of destruction flood. However, the most crucial advice is to have insurance in place. The loss from a flood can be a confounding experience for the victim. Take Mrs. Juliet Dimgba for instance, reported in the Daily Sun to have lost all her goods in a warehouse at Tetlow Road, Owerri, to that 2019 flood in Imo State. “As a petty trader dealing in foodstuffs, I was at the market when I was told that flood had completely taken over my warehouse, destroying all my crayfish and other perishable foods. Last year was hell for me, almost all my life savings were used to purchase the goods,” she told the Daily Sun. Yet, a year prior, the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) revealed that insurance companies in the country paid a total N1.2 billion to their customers for destructions caused by flooding. The NIA also disclosed that there had been an upsurge in flood insurance underwriting by very discerning individuals and businesses, who understand that flooding is a recurring risk in Nigeria to the homes and business assets. In a similar event, the Daily Trust newspaper reported that in 2012, Frieslands Foods West African Milk Company (WAMCO), the manufacturers of Peak Milk, received N3.636 billion in total claims for damages caused by floods at its Ikeja factory. These testimonials are demonstrable evidence that insurance is the best risk management tool to deploy against floods proactively. This is where Leadway Assurance, Nigeria’s foremost insurer with over five decades of impeccable service delivery, comes in. With the Leadway Householder insurance, for instance, individuals can cover their home and household contents against floods as well as other risks, like fire, burglary, lightning & thunderbolt, explosion, riot & strikes, and other special perils. That is not all. With this insurance cover, even funeral expenses in the event of death caused by any of the insured perils will be borne by Leadway. It is incredible, but true. Do not subject your valuables to the risks of the impending floods, call our professional advisers for additional guidance via our virtual communication channels – 0812 999 7115, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com.  