Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt The police in Rivers State, on Tuesday, arrested two suspected notorious kidnappers in a sting operation. Operatives of the Anti-Kidnapping Unit, who carried out the operation, recovered the decomposing body of a victim, whom the suspects had earlier abducted and ransom of N1m collected, but the victim was never released. The cops also recovered a vehicle belonging to the victim, who was identified as Ereba Dinabari. Addressing journalists in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, said the suspects had confessed to the crime and led detectives to a forest in the Alesa community, Eleme Local Government Area of the state, where the victim’s decomposing body was found tied to a tree. Omoni added that the victim was kidnapped on Friday, May 5, 2020, at Woji, Port Harcourt by the suspects, Osundu Uchendu, 25, and Amebulem Amos, 23. He said, “Operatives of the Anti-Kidnapping Unit arrested the suspects while doing a follow-up on the kidnap of one Ereba Gospel Dinabari, who was abducted on May 15, 2020, at Woji, Port Harcourt, and a ransom of N1m was paid without the victim being released. “The Commander of Anti-Kidnapping Unit on Tuesday, July 14, 2020, led operatives to storm Alesa in the Eleme LGA, where two suspects, Osundu Uchendu, 25, and Amebulem Amos, 23, were arrested. “Their confession led the operatives to a forest at Alesa in the Eleme LGA, where the victim’s decomposing body was found tied to a tree.” The PPRO stated that the suspects confessed to carrying out a series of kidnappings within the state, adding that once investigation was concluded, they would be charged. Omoni added, “The Toyota Spider car belonging to the victim was recovered. The suspects confessed to have carried out several kidnappings around Woji, Abuloma, Peter Odili Road and Eleme communities. “Investigation is still ongoing and they will be charged as soon as investigation is concluded.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 