Afeez Hanafi Residents of Olugboyo Close, Giwa Oke-Aro, Ogun State, on Friday woke to find a newborn abandoned with a shawl wrapped around him. The incident occurred barely two weeks after a girl with cerebral palsy was abandoned in front of a shop on Tajudeen Bello Street, also in Giwa Oke-Aro. City Round learnt that a bread seller hawking along the area around 7.30am sighted the baby and raised the alarm. A resident, Yemi Mabayoje, who said the baby boy was abandoned outside his apartment window, told our correspondent that he called the 112 emergency line and took the baby to Oke-Aro Health Centre. He added that the baby showed no sign of disability. He stated, “I saw the baby around 7.30am. I was inside with my family when a woman hawking bread raised the alarm that a baby was outside. I came out and was surprised to see the baby. I called the emergency line and some minutes later, the Divisional Police Officer of Agbado Police Station called me. “Because of the cold weather, we quickly took the baby to Oke-Aro Health Centre where the DPO met me and some other residents. I have written a statement at the station. The baby is still at the health centre.” Alhaja Mutiat Salami, the wife of the Ifo Local Government Chairman, said the state Ministry of Women Affairs had been notified about the case and efforts were ongoing to locate the mother of the baby. She said, “It came as a shock to be informed this morning (Friday) of the discovery of an abandoned baby at Oke-Aro area of Ifo Local Government. Upon visiting the health centre, I immediately made contacts to the Ministry of Women Affairs and efforts are ongoing to locate the mother of the baby. The wellbeing of the baby is being taken care of at the moment.” The council Chairman, Fola Salami, told City Round that the wife of the state governor had shown interest in taking care of the baby. “We have got in touch with the state government. The wife of Governor Dapo Abiodun has called and by Monday the child will be handed over to the state government,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com