Yusuff Moshood Allowing the proliferation of online platforms offering medicines for sale without appropriate regulations poses danger to the health of Nigerians, experts have warned. The experts, Registrar of the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria, Elijah Mohammed; and immediate past national chairman of the Association of Industrial Pharmacists of Nigeria, Dr. Lolu Ojo, spoke with PUNCH HealthWise. They said though the world had gone digital, it is imperative to regulate online sales of medicines to safeguard the health of Nigerians. PUNCH HealthWise investigations revealed that the number of online stores offering medicines for sale to Nigerians in the last couple of years has increased, with many of the stores ready to deliver the drugs to buyers in their homes. Investigations revealed further that while some of the online platforms are dedicated to exclusively selling medications and are managed by pharmacists or linked to some registered pharmacies, there are also many platforms neither managed by pharmacists nor linked to any registered pharmacies, yet they sell all sorts of medications, including prescription drugs. The drugs offered for sale by the online platforms, PUNCH HealthWise can report, range from over the counter medicines to herbal medicines and prescription medicines for complicated health conditions. Some of the online platforms selling other products and also selling medicines include Konga.com and Kara Nigeria. While Kara offers for sale some medications for serious health conditions such as hepatitis, hypertension, diabetes, asthma and tuberculosis, Konga’s medications for sale range from Metformin, Aspirin to Viagra, as well as herbal capsules and tablets for prostate cancer and other health conditions. However, according to the registrar of PCN, even though online sale of medicines will help increase access, decrease operational cost of pharmacies and reduce physical interaction in the light of the need for social distancing requirements, it can also bring more chaos to drug distribution in Nigeria and increase misuse of prescription medicines as the nation does not have a prescription policy. Mohammed added that online sale of medicine will not be easy to regulate and may increase the proliferation of fake and counterfeit medicines. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 