Friday Olokor, Abuja A former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon (retd), on Thursday raised the alarm that some persons with sinister motives did not want peace to prevail in Nigeria. Gowon, however, expressed optimism that through prayers, the country would overcome such challengers so that Nigeria would not break up. He spoke at a thanksgiving service and reception in honour of the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission, Rev. Yakubu Pam, at the National Christian Centre, Abuja. Represented at the event by a former governor of Benue State and Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, the former head of state also warned against undermining the territorial integrity of Nigeria. Gowon said, “There are people with sinister motives who wouldn’t want peace, but through prayers we will overcome so that Nigeria will not go asunder. This country is too big and too versed, with a population of 200 million people. A scholar said that we are structurally complex and plurally diverse. “If our territorial integrity is undermined, Somalia will be a child’s play. We don’t have to toy with our unity. You are in a very good position working closely with CAN and people of other faith, so that together, we can re-establish peace, push forward our agenda for our territorial integrity, push forward for our oneness so that together, supporting the President, we can take our country to the next level.” During the event, the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, said Pam should use his position and relationship with the Christian Association of Nigeria “to sustain and improve intra-religious and inter-religious harmony among Nigerians for which you are well known.” Earlier in his sermon, the President of CAN, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, said Nigeria had been crawling because of untrustworthy embezzlers and rogues in positions of leadership. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 