Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress led to a drama in the Senate on Wednesday during the screening of some ambassadorial nominees by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The panel started the screening of 41 non-career and one career ambassadorial nominees on Wednesday. The nominee from Edo State, Yamah Musa, caused a stir when he was asked by the Chairman of the panel, Senator Muhammad Bulkachuwa, to explain his contribution to  the APC in Edo State. The nominee, who hails from the Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, answered that he ensured total victory for candidates of the APC in the area during the 2019 general elections. He said, “I was one of the foremost party members who conducted primary elections for all our House of Representatives candidates in the South-West, one of whom is the Honourable  Speaker of the House of Representatives , Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila.” But a member of the committee, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, described the acclaimed achievements of the nominee as a sham. Amosun said, “Please such exercise is not something you should be referring to as an achievement because as party members, we knew what happened then and those behind it . “We don’t  want you to carry this type of mindset to foreign post if eventually confirmed. The earlier you erased such unbecoming assignments as personal achievements, the better,” Amosun said. Another member of the committee, Senator Rochas Okorocha, also hit the nominee. He said, “You are here to be screened and possibly confirmed as an ambassador to represent Nigeria and you are reminding us of worst primary elections ever conducted by a political party in Nigeria under a man that had been sent away now. “I hope you are not being rewarded for the sham you called primaries and injustice done against loyal party members.” Bulkachuwa, however, came to the rescue of the nominee by appealing to other  members to allow him take a bow and go. The nominee hurriedly left the venue of the screening when he was told to take a bow and go. Apart from the embattled Edo nominee, the committee also screened Ademola Seriki ( Lagos), Umar Suleiman (Adamawa), Maj. Gen. C.O. Ugwu (Enugu), and Mr Kelvin Peter Adamu (Adamawa), among others. The exercise continues on Thursday (today). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    