John Alechenu, Abuja The Tijjani Tumsa-led All Progressives Congress Screening Committee for the Ondo State Governorship Primary on Wednesday screened the incumbent Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu and five other aspirants. The first person to be screened was Akeredolu and he confirmed his participation in the exercise on his Facebook page. He said, “I have just undergone screening by my party @OfficialAPCNg. Members of the committee were thorough, scrutinising all documents amongst other questions. I believe the party made excellent choices of the committee members. Very professional and courteous…” Apart from Akeredolu, others who were said to have been screened were Joseph Iji, Chief Odimayo Okunjimi, Chief Olayide Adelami, Chief Isaac Kekemeke Duerimini and Chief Olusola Oke. The other six governorship aspirants are to be screened on Thursday, while screening appeal committee will seat on Friday. Unlike previous exercises, which took place at the party’s National Secretariat, the Wednesday’s exercise took place at an unnamed hotel in Utako District, Abuja. Meanwhile, the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee has endorsed the indirect mode of primary for the Ondo primary election. Sources within the party hierarchy confirmed this to our correspondent on Wednesday. One of the sources said, “The Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee of the party had written to INEC informing it of the party’s plan to conduct the June 20 primary long before the caretaker committee took office. “As a party, we do not have the luxury of time to begin to revisit matters that have already been settled. We have to move forward. The committee was left with no choice but to make progress.” One of the party’s aspirants, Chief Olusola Oke, had in an interview with reporters at the party secretariat, after submitting his nomination and expression of interest forms; expressed opposition to the indirect mode. He said, “There is no way indirect primary can take place in Ondo State today. Article 13 of the APC is clear on it that if you want to do an indirect primary, you must convey a special congress to constitute the electoral college to elect the delegates. “But because of time constraint, the only option open for our party is to do direct primary like we have just had in Edo State, which went peacefully.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com