Sunday Aborisade The 2015 audit report prepared by the office of the Auditor-General for the Federation which is currently being considered by the Senate Public Accounts Committee has indicted the National Assembly of funds mismanagement amounting to N2bn during the fiscal year. The document sighted by our correspondent on Friday indicted the management of the federal parliament of gross violation of the provisions of the Financial Regulations in their various accounting records. The report also identified poor funds retirements/diversion, non-remittances of tax deducted from the staff to Federal Inland Revenue Service, irregular payment of allowances and keeping funds in commercial banks to attract commission, among others. For instance, the report queried the management’s accounts for the House of Representatives which indicated the non-purchase of 14 out of the 48 units of utility vehicles awarded to three contractors at a cost of N624.3m. The report read, “During the audit of the accounts of the House of Representatives, it was observed that contracts for the purchase of 48 units of utility vehicles were awarded to three contractors at a total contract sum of N624.377.503.30. “Records, however, showed that the supply of 14 units of these motor vehicles was not made. “The Clerk has been informed and requested to make these 48 vehicles available for audit verification; otherwise, he should recover monies paid for the outstanding 14 vehicles and forward the recovery particulars for audit verification.” The report added that 50 cash advances for various amounts totalling N499.666,666.00 were granted to staff to carry out various assignments. It added, “However, at the time of writing this report in August 2016, more than a year after, the advances have yet to be retired. “Some of the officers were granted multiple advances without retiring the previous ones in violation of the financial regulations which provide that no new advance should be granted if the previous ones had not been retired. “The Clerk of the National Assembly has been requested to recover the advances from the affected officers and furnish me (AuGoF) with the recovery particulars for audit verification.” The report also stated that the Personnel Account maintained by the National Assembly management was overdrawn in two instances, which attracted a penalty of N8.8m in violation of the provisions of the Financial Regulations 710. The report also queried the payment vouchers for amounts totalling N115.947.016 00 paid by the management within the first six months of the financial year 2015. It stated that National Assembly management did not produce the vouchers for audit examination and, “Therefore, I (AuGoF) cannot attest to them as proper charges against public funds.” “The clerk of the National Assembly has been requested to produce the vouchers or recover the total sum under reference, and the particulars forwarded for audit verification,” it added. The audit report also stated that it was observed at the Senate that amounts totalling N186,866,183.42 meant for the payment of motor vehicle loan paid into a commercial bank account as indicated in the mandate was misapplied for other purposes such as organising a Senate retreat, pre-valedictory session of the 7th Senate, and so on. Also, during the audit of the National Assembly Service Commission, it was observed that amounts totalling N17,190,471.50 were deducted from four months salaries by the commission in the year 2015 as Pay As You Earn and claimed to have been remitted to the Federal Inland Revenue Services without any evidence of payment to the FIRS. Sunday PUNCH in March 2020 reported that the Senate Public Accounts Committee had launched a probe into the federation account from 2015. The Chairman of SPAC, Senator Mathew Urhoghide, told our correspondent that the National Assembly had yet to audit the federation account under the current regime despite budgetary allocations to the ministries, department and agencies of the government every year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com