Adebayo Folorunsho-Francis A pharmaceutical chemist has warned that continual diversion of drugs meant for other health conditions to treat the novel coronavirus could overwhelm the health system and lead to essential medicines scarcity. Since its outbreak, COVID-19 has been managed with medications such as chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir, lopinavir/ritonavir and Dexamethasone — all of which were not originally indicated for coronavirus treatment. Prior to their deployment in the treatment of the virus, Chief Executive Officer of Bloom Public Health, Prof. Chimezie Anyakora said, the aforementioned pharmaceuticals were essential drugs meant to treat malaria, Ebola, HIV and inflammatory disorder respectively. The scientist said the COVID-19 global pandemic had exposed the vulnerabilities in the medicines’ supply chain in every country across the world. “The current COVID-19 pandemic has challenged the strongest health systems and threatened the weak ones prevalent mostly in low and middle-income countries, especially in Africa. “Medical products, vaccines and technologies are one of the World Health Organisation’s six building blocks of the health system. Access to quality medicines and health products is an indicator that measures a countries’ progress towards universal health coverage,” he said. The WHO handbook on monitoring the six building blocks of health systems harps on health service delivery, health workforce, health information system, access to essential medicines, health system financing and leadership and governance. Anyakora said the negative impact of the novel coronavirus had witnessed a rise in diversion of drugs of interest for other medical treatments to fight COVID-19, shortages of medicines, inadequate healthcare delivery and over-dependence on imports and poor patronage to the local industry. “COVID-19 has clearly shed light on the vulnerability of the supply chain, amplifying the inadequacies and constraints in the supply system for medical products and technologies in Africa. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  