Dr. Sylvester Ikhisemojie Those two words have attained something of some notoriety in the last eight months but they have always been available in the scientific lexicon of biologists, public health specialists and epidemiologists. In the course of this pandemic, the words have taken on a new meaning. In reality, the term means that the source of the spread of a particular disease condition is not known hence the usual exhortations to be careful with our personal hygiene and the way we relate to our immediate environment. It is therefore a reference to the difficulty that has been found in getting hold of the definite link between confirmed disease cases in a locality and the other newer people who get the infection. In such a situation, the source of the spread of a disease is not known or is the subject of conjecture as no contacts between current patients and other members of the society has successfully been established. The term means the transmission of a microbe from one person to another through any of a variety of recognised methods. In most cases, the precise mechanism of such transmission is uncertain but diligent investigative laboratory work could provide the key. In the real life situation such as we currently face in much of the world with respect to the current Covid-19 pandemic, such has been the uncertainty that the disease has proved difficult to control. Even as of today, many things about the nature of the virus causing this disease remain unknown while some other features have essentially been the combination of sound scientific knowledge and experience on the field of work across many countries. In the main, many facts are emerging on a daily basis while debate still goes on even within the scientific community about whether this condition can be an airborne disease or not. What is clear with regards to what community transmission means is that microorganisms can be transmitted directly from one person to another through one or more of the following ways; Disease transmission can also be described as direct or indirect. It is known as a direct transmission when we consider any of the modes of transmission discussed above. It is known as an indirect transmission when the infection is contracted through another organism known as a vector. In this relationship, a vector such as a mosquito can transmit the plasmodium parasite to a human being by means of a bite. And a pig can transmit tapeworm to humans when they eat pork that has not been adequately cooked. Airborne infection and droplet infection are similar in that the infective particles are transported by air. However, while the organisms that cause airborne infections tend to be lighter so that they can stay suspended in the air for many hours, the droplet infections on the other hand tend to be caused by slightly heavier particles which are unable to float for as long as the strictly airborne ones and therefore quickly settle on surfaces that have metal or plastic coverings. From there, they get into contact with the mucosal surfaces of individuals who rub their hands against such surfaces and apply those hands to any opening on their faces such as the eyes, mouth and nose. In either case, they are described also as aerosols and they usually infect others by way of the upper and lower respiratory tracts. As a result of this ability, they mostly would begin with symptoms of disease in those passages hence the common presentation with cough, catarrh, an itchy throat and then a sore throat before they develop into frank features of pneumonia and difficulty with breathing. When all of these various scenarios are met or any one of them is recognised as the mode of spread of a particular condition, community transmission can be assumed. Dear doctor, please sir I need your help. I am 15 years old and I started my period some months ago but it stopped immediately without having sex. Sir, what can I do? 0901xxxxxxx You are not supposed to be doing anything about this. At the beginning, when the periods are just starting, they can be irregular and inconsistent like that but after some months, they can become regular and have a pattern that is predictable. If your period should stop at your age after you have had sex, the most likely reason for that would be that you are pregnant. Since you can read these articles, it means you can write. That also means that you have some knowledge. As a consequence, sex is not for you at this age. Dear doctor, thank you very much for the work you are doing. May God bless you. Please sir, I have a dry skin. What can I use? Thank you for your response.  0909xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your prayers. I appreciate you. If your skin is dry, it is not considered a disease and there are several different types of moisturising lotions available in the market that you can use to restore adequate moisture to your skin. Some of these are natural products and some others are artificial. You will have to sample one or two to determine what suits you the most. Sometimes, even Vaseline jelly is sufficient to do this job for you. After all is said and done, ensure that you drink a healthy amount of water every day. Dear doctor, how are you doing sir? Please sir, I need one of your products, “Penis enlargement.” I stay at Ibadan. How can I get it sir? 0903xxxxxxx Thank you, I am fine. That is a serious request. On this page, we do not sell any products. If you happened to see any such advert on this page, it would be linked to an address. Follow that link and contact the marketer for further advice. Dear doctor, I am a 16 year old living in Edo State. Please, does garlic get rid of pimples on the face and also make the face smooth? 0906xxxxxxx There are many properties claimed for garlic. It is a food condiment and therefore cannot harm you. Therefore, it is worth trying. Now, that being said, garlic has activities against bacteria and viruses. It also has antiseptic properties from a compound called Allicin. This substance helps to kill the bacteria that cause acne and it is believed to be able to reduce the swelling and inflammation associated with both pimples and acne. As a result, these effects could help your face receive more nutrients and acquire a smooth appearance. Dear doctor, may the Lord continue to bless you and empower you with his spirit as you discharge your duties to the community. Please sir, lately, I started having heaviness in my chest as if a stone has been placed on it. I do not have any other ailments except when my blood pressure goes up and I use my drug. Is there any reason to worry? I will be 70 next month. God bless you sir. 0803xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your prayers sir. There is nothing wrong with you I believe. What I think the problem is is that you do not regularly take your blood pressure medications except when you find out that it is high. That is a knee jack reaction to a persistent condition and what you feel in your chest could be a side effect of the drug you are using. Whereas, if you were taking the medicine more regularly and more predictably, your chest would not behave like it is currently doing. You must however, see your doctor for a proper evaluation. Dear doctor, I am a girl and I am 15 years old. I have a big tummy and because of that, I do not wear clothes that show my tummy. I have even tried exercising but it doesn’t work. Please tell me what to do. 0904xxxxxxx When you say that you have tried to exercise but that it does not work, it means that you have not yet tried hard enough. For exercise to help you lose weight, it needs to be intensive at your age and consistent. In addition to that, you must reduce the amount of food you eat. Do not eat between meals and do not take snacks except once in a week or so. If you can do all of that, you will see positive results in one month and definite changes in three months. Dear doctor, I am a 47-year-old man from Epe, Lagos State. I read your article up in Sunday PUNCH and I am interested in asking you this question: Sir, I have problems with quick ejaculation as I don’t usually last up to two minutes in bed most times and it has created lots of shame and embarrassment because it doesn’t go down well with my new wife. I have tried some sexual drugs but to no avail. Please which drugs can I use to boost my performance? I need your help please.  0814xxxxxxx I believe that you ought to see a doctor because at your age, there may be an underlying health reason why you now suffer from such quick ejaculation. If you are reticent about seeing one, you should at least go to a proper pharmacy for advice on what to use. As you did not disclose what medication you have previously tried to use, one is handicapped in giving you further advice in that regard. Finally, you have no reason to feel shame or embarrassment; instead you and your new wife ought to frankly discuss the matter before you and together work at finding a resolution. In the end, that may prove to be the treatment that you actually need. A cooperative partner is more effective than any drug you might want to try. Dear doctor, I am an avid reader of your updates in Sunday PUNCH Punch. I have asked this question before but I didn’t quite get an answer. My erections face up pointing towards my body as in it just goes there directly. I also release sperm with my urine and lately, it is mostly sperm I release and so I feel as if something is wrong with me a lot of times. So my question is that is there anything wrong with me or all this is normal? I am 14 years old.  0907xxxxxxx These features are normal at your age. There is nothing wrong with you. The penis facing your body is the result of strong erections provoked by rising levels of testosterone in your blood. These erections will become less strong as you get older. The semen in your urine is a residue from night emissions or wet dreams and that is also normal. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 