Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti EKITI State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Tuesday assured the National Youths Service Corps of his administration’s readiness to collaborate with it to ensure it recorded remarkable success in the state. Fayemi, who lauded NYSC role in national integration, said that despite the lean resources of the state, government would ensure an environment conducive for corps members posted to the state as he promised to engage them in the various programmes of the state government. The governor, who spoke in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, while receiving the new State Coordinator of the corps, Mrs Mary Chikezie, said, “NYSC is an institution that we all associate with either as corps members ourselves or as distant watchers of the role it has played in national integration of our country. “To that extent, everybody wants to be associated one way or the other with the service. Our commitment to support the corps remains unshakeable. Of course, Ekiti is not a buoyant state in terms of financial resources, but we are very committed to all federal institutions in the state,” Fayemi said. Fayemi, who also played host to the Federal Road Safety Corps Sector Commander, Mrs Elizabeth Akinlade, expressed his commitment to the safety and security of the citizens. He lauded the FRSC for its radical drive towards saving people’s lives and property as well as the transformation the service had achieved. The governor added that his administration would work assiduously with the corps to achieve its goals. Fayemi said, “FRSC is an institution that is totally dedicated to safety and security, particularly on our roads; we tend to have more people who have died from road accidents in the last five months than probably the casualty we received from COVID-19.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   