As the only female candidate in a group of 14, how do you hope to outshine your several male contenders? I am going to do my best and leave the rest to God. I know I have God’s support, the support of my family, my community, women, and youths. So, we are all believing in ourselves and the people to change the narrative. Your party is relatively unknown in Edo State. Don’t you think this may cause a setback for your aspiration? You are right that we have a huge task ahead and I am not shying away from it, but we have put strategies in place to reach out to all our communities, senatorial districts, and local government areas. We have people on the ground who are talking about the agenda of the NNPP and we hope to be different from others. Yes, it is a Herculean task for us, but God willing, we will sail through. What is contained in your manifesto? We are looking at areas such as agriculture, job creation, security, education, and healthcare. If given the mandate to govern the state, we will be looking at creating 100,000 jobs annually. In creating these jobs, we will be looking at interventions in mechanised agriculture as well as exportation of our locally made goods. We will also focus on manufacturing and production as well as civil service employment and harnessing other state assets. There are a lot of state assets that have yet to be harnessed. If you go to Edo North, for instance, you have gold deposits and many other precious stones, yet our attention over the years has mainly been on the area of taxation and federal allocation. We will engage a team of experts from the 18 LGAs on the way forward for progress. Recently, 35 political parties allegedly stepped down for one of the major contenders in the election. Are you going to step down as well in the days ahead? I will not. I understand that some registered and deregistered parties collapsed their structure to that of the government of the ruling party in the state, but the NNPP will not. Those parties do not have the political will to move Edo State forward because they are hungry and the government of the day will relate with them as hungry people, which I am sure they have done. If we continue to collapse structures or align as the case may be, it means that the people that have sold the future will continue to tamper with the future of the generations unborn.  For the NNPP, we are knee-deep in this matter. How would you assess the administration of Governor Godwin Obaseki in the last three years? When Governor Obaseki was campaigning about four years ago, he said something about operating an all-inclusive government, if I am right; he also promised to create 200,000 jobs and others. We have looked at some of these things he promised to do. In some areas, he might have excelled, and in others, he did not. The summation is that the ones he did not do far outweighed the ones he did. In the area of agriculture, for instance, the rice farm in Sobe, Owan area, was canvassed and so many billions of naira went into the farm. But, he only brought experts, who did not know anything, and they succeeded in destroying the place and, at the end of the day, not a single bag of rice came out from Sobe. In the area of education, in some communities, we have very few teachers, almost one per school. So, for me, if I want to score the government of the All Progressives Congress (now Peoples Democratic Party) in Edo State, they scored 30 per cent. How would you react to the recent spate of accusations by both the PDP and the APC ahead of the election in the state? All of these are to shift attention from the primary focus. The focus is that election is here; what is it that they want to do differently? They are not campaigning on issues, but busy flinging mud and, before you know what is happening, the election will be here. These accusations have not projected the primary objective of electioneering on the way forward for Edo State. Elections or no elections, revenues will keep coming to the state, the question is, what have they used it for over the years? Obaseki said party leaders were asking him for money to share, but in the end, is it not the same government revenue he is sharing now? As of today, if there is a downpour, you cannot access some parts of the Sapele/Benin Road due to flood. Also, a portion of that road by the Benin bypass overhead bridge is completely bad. The water project that his predecessor started has been abandoned. We have floods all over Edo. Assuming there was continuity of some projects, we won’t be experiencing these problems. The godfatherism syndrome has been a recurring decimal in Edo State politics. How can this be eliminated? Let us tell each other the truth. This issue of godfatherism has been there from days of old.  Somebody can introduce or recommend someone for a job to be done somewhere and that someone can honestly say if not for ABC, I wouldn’t have got this job. In the end, if Mr ABC recommends 10 persons and they all get the job, these 10 persons will begin to refer to Mr ABC as their godfather. We cannot eradicate it. My counsel is that government needs to works solely for the people. It should put round pegs in round holes. There are fears in some quarters that the election may be violent. Do you also have that fear? The violence is already here because some people’s houses have been destroyed. However, we are praying that any plan to cause violence or kill innocent souls will not stand. The massive use of social media to reach out to the electorate is noticeable in the ongoing campaigns in Edo. Do you think they are getting to the grassroots? I must say that they are not getting to the grassroots, you will still need to go out there. You cannot reach the people in my community through that means because there is no network there. Besides, people do not have the means to be on social media. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com