Kayode Oyero The Federal Government on Monday asked schools in the country to reopen for graduating pupils effective August 4. It also announced that this year’s West African Senior School Certificate Examination would commence on August 17. This was contained in a statement signed by the Director, Press and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Education, Ben Goong. In the statement titled, ‘Exit Classes To Reopen August 4th’, the ministry said the agreed dates were part of the resolution reached after a consultative meeting with the education commissioners of the 36 states of the federation and other stakeholders. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the FG initially announced that the 2020 WASSCE would start on August 4 through September 5 but later cancelled the planned reopening of schools for graduating pupils citing health concerns amid the coronavirus pandemic which had necessitated the closure of schools across the country since March. However, the statement signed by Goong on Monday read, “Secondary schools in the country are to reopen from the 4th of August 2020 for exit classes only. “Students will have two weeks with which to prepare for the West African Examinations due to start on the 17th of August 2020. “These were the unanimous decisions reached today at a virtual consultative meeting between the Federal Ministry of Education, Honourable Commissioners of Education of the 36 states, the Nigerian Union of Teachers, the proprietors of private schools and the Chief Executives of examination bodies. “It was agreed that the exit classes should resume immediately after the Sallah break, from the 4th of August 2020, to enable them to prepare for the WAEC examinations scheduled to commence from the 17th of August 2020. READ ALSO: Oshiomhole turns prayer warrior, begs God to sack Obaseki “The meeting also resolved that a passionate appeal be made to the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 and public-spirited Nigerians for assistance to schools across the country to enable them fast-track the preparation for safe reopening, as agreed. “Another meeting is to be convened tomorrow between the Federal Ministry of Education and the Chief Executives of examination bodies namely, NECO, NABTEB and NBAIS to harmonise their examination dates, which will be conveyed to stakeholders expeditiously by the Federal Ministry of Education.”