Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State Police Command, on Thursday, paraded 103 suspects for allegedly being involved in cultism, vandalism and armed robbery, among others. Fifty of the suspects were said to be members of the Eiye and Aiye confraternities and were nabbed while planning to wreak havoc on the state. The command had on Sunday raised the alarm that members of a notorious cult were planning to launch a state-wide campaign of terror and violence on the state. Parading the suspects at the command headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, said the suspects were arrested at different locations in the state. Ebrimson explained that on Tuesday, July 7, 2020, at a hideout in the Ifo Local Government Area of the state, operatives from the Ifo Division arrested nine suspected cultists while planning their 7/7 day. He stated that on July 6, 2020, three members of the group were arrested for planning to launch a bloody attack the following day on the Epe garage area of Ijebu-Ode. Similarly, operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad during a patrol in Abeokuta arrested nine members of the Aiye Confraternity in different parts of the state capital. The CP explained that the Inspector-General of Police Squad, while working on an intelligence report, cordoned-off two hotels in Ijoko-Ota, where 27 members of the Eiye Confraternity were apprehended. Ebrimson said, “Upon information received about the activities of the Aiye group to launch an attack on their yearly 7/7 day celebration, operatives from the Anti-Cultism Unit, led by DSP Muyiwa Adeosun, swung into action and went straight to an unnamed hotel in Ogijo, where some suspected cult members were holding their meeting. “Immediately they sighted the police, they took to their heels, but three of them were arrested. “Also, following information about the planned cult anniversary scheduled to hold on July 7 across the state, the IGP-IRT, Ogun State annex, working on an intelligence report, cordoned-off the Ade Royal Hotel and the Delkish Hotel, both at Gasline, Ijoko-Ota, where members of the group converged to hold a meeting on the planned havoc on July 7; in the process, 27 members of the Eiye Confraternity were apprehended.” Meanwhile, a 44-year-old pastor of the Christ Apostolic Church, Oluwakemi Oyebola, who was arrested for allegedly impregnating his own daughter and procuring abortion for her three times, has attributed his action to “the devil’s arrow” targeted at him. Oyebola, who was among the 103 suspected criminals paraded, said he could not fathom why he engaged in the incestuous relationship with his daughter. The cleric, who was paraded alongside the nurse, who allegedly carried out the abortions, added that having sex with his daughter was not intentional. He also denied that he began to have sex with the victim in 2015 as alleged by the police, adding that the relationship started in 2017. The cleric also said he procured abortion for his daughter just once and not thrice. Oyebola said, “I was hit by the devil’s arrow targeted at me by my enemies. I could not fathom how I began having sex with my own daughter. It is a shameful act, I agree. But unlike what was reported in the media, I only began to have sex with her in 2017 and not 2015 as claimed by the police. Also, the abortion I procured for her was just once and not thrice. “I regret my action and I have sought forgiveness from my daughter. She has forgiven me as she came to plead with the CP on my behalf on Wednesday. I want to sincerely beg for forgiveness from Nigerians; my action was unheard of and I seriously regret it.” The nurse, Monilola Ogundimu, denied terminating any pregnancy for the girl. Ogundimu, who said she was the Assistant Matron and Head, Family Planning Unit, Idiroko General Hospital, Ipokia Local Government Area of the state, stated that she only helped the girl with a family planning method as instructed by her father. She added that until her arrest by the police, she did not know that the man was the girl’s father, as he presented her as his housemaid and not daughter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 