Our Correspondents PROMINENT Nigerians on Tuesday paid glowing tributes to late Isa Funtua, an ally of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). This is as the remains of the elder statesman were buried at Gudu Cemetery in Abuja. Funtua, a former President of the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria, died of cardiac arrest in Abuja on Monday evening at the age of 76. Among those, who poured encomiums on Futua, are former President Olusegun Obasanjo and the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. In his tribute on Tuesday, Obasanjo described his (Funtua) death as a grievous loss to his family, his friends, associates, Katsina State and, indeed, the entire nation. Obasanjo, who spoke through a statement signed by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, said, “His impacts were particularly felt during the administration of President Shehu Shagari under whom he served as honourable Minister of Water Resources, as well as during his membership of the committee of the 1994-1995 Constitutional Conference that came up with models in key areas of Nigeria’s existence.” Also, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in a statement, described the passing of the elder statesman as a saddening national loss. “We spoke, but two days before, as we often do. He spoke vibrantly, with his trademark logic and deep knowledge. We ended our conversation, agreeing to resume soon again. There was no indication that this would be our last talk.” Similarly, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State expressed grief and shock over Funtua’s demise. Another governor, Aminu Masari of Katsina State,  in a press statement by his Director General, Media, Abdu Labaran Malumfashi, described Funtua’s death as a loss of monumental proportion, which impact would be felt beyond the shores of Nigeria. In a statement, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, condoled with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over the loss, being a long time friend of the President. Adding his voice, the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, described the death of Funtua as a great loss to Nigeria. The Governing Council, staff and students of Nigerian Institute of Journalism  described the death of their Governing Council chairman  as a great loss. A statement signed by the Provost, NIJ, Gbemiga Ogunleye, further described Funtua as a committed defender of freedom of speech, press freedom and democracy. Meanwhile, eminent Nigerians  were present  as Funtua remains were buried in Abuja. Daura was one of the dignitaries present when Funtua’s remains were buried around 1.45pm on Tuesday. Apart from Daura, who is the President’s nephew, a long time associate of the President and former Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, also attended the burial. Also at the burial were a former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu; and Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni. By Olalekan Adetayo, Friday Olokor, Daud Olatunji, Olaide Oyelude, Leke Baiyewu and Grace Edema Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 