Neurological conditions often occur in the nervous system. What are some of the most common ones in Nigeria? There are various types of neurological conditions, from infective to generative. There are the ones that patients are born with that we have in children and those that are tumoural. Among the common ones, under each division, I can talk about meningitis, for instance. Most meningitis cases are treated with medication by neurologists. But at times, when they become complicated, in a few cases, they may need surgery. So, just for division, a doctor can see both. But you then have sub-specialties, so that they won’t waste time trying to treat the infections. So, it’s when there is a surgical indication, we will just take over. It’s not that we don’t treat infection, but we will leave it to a neurologist to take care of. What are some of the misconceptions about meningitis? It is just like many other things. It depends on the presentation. The common presentation is fever, headaches and neck stiffness. When people have this, they tend to think it is meningitis. Luckily for us, if you are able to investigate and make the appropriate diagnosis, with antibiotics, they (symptoms) go. But sometimes, people forget that every neck stiffness is not meningitis. In fact, you can have a projection of a brain tumour that can make a patient have neck stiffness. Ruptured aneurysm could have a patient experience neck stiffness. So, just like we hear about COVID-19, what we always tell people is, if a patient has headaches, neck stiffness, is being managed for meningitis and there is no resolution within five to seven days, they should have a specialist consult because many neurological conditions have similar presentation that will need a sub-specialist to be able to decipher what type of neurological problem the patient has. Sometimes, people can present with change in personalities, and then it is ascribed to juju, native context and things like that. Sometimes, they present with convulsion, which is attributed to native or traditional (causes). Symptomatology can lead us to what it is, but the best thing, I always tell people, is to have a doctor look at it because some of the symptoms can be similar and a specialist looks at it, investigates to confirm and then we take it from there. But we have to know that everything in Africa or Nigeria is not the way we look at it — that it is juju when they start exhibiting abnormal behaviour or talking irrationally. Or that when someone is experiencing weakness, it is a stroke. Neurological conditions are relatively more complex than people make them out to be. We already have a preconceived mind in the populace that if one part of the body is weak, it is a stroke. Not necessarily. What other neurological conditions have you encountered recently? I saw a patient a few days ago with a ruptured aneurysm, which is a burst of blood pipe within the brain and it has a high mortality rate. And even those that survive, quite a number of them can also have one form of disability or the other. Some of the cases we read about in the newspapers that somebody took Viagra and died could actually be ruptured aneurysm. People just think it’s a heart condition. It may be the heart, but unless you do an autopsy, you will not know. Sometimes, it’s because of a bleed into the brain. So, it’s a form of stroke, but there are different types of stroke. This type of stroke has to be treated by surgery, most of the time, in Nigeria. There is one other treatment that is given for it. But there is only one case called endovascular that has been done in Nigeria, where, instead of opening the skull, you go via the groin to block that pipe that has burst. A common case in adults is brain tumours. It is very common. Sometimes, we have what we call degenerative spine disease. As far as you are an erect human being, it is only a matter of time before one starts experiencing back pains. Some of these back pains will need surgery. Sometimes, it affects the neck and you may also need surgery. How often do you deal with cases of tumour? It is a daily affair. It is so common. I had a clinic on Monday and, in the clinic, I saw about 30 patients; about seven of them were people with brain tumours. The rest of them consisted of cases involving the spine, neck, lower back, and congenital problems in children. What makes tumours so prevalent? Most brain tumours are what we call ‘acquired,’ that is, they occur because one of the cells had gone rogue. We have billions of cells and the brain is like a factory. In the factory, there will be some products that are not good that we try to take off as a source of quality assurance to ensure that those products do not go into the market. It is the same way with brain cells. There will be some cells that are either ageing or injured by so many factors — food, radiation, things like that. The body mops it out, but, once in a while, the effective quality control of the brain cells is not good and that brain cell then goes rogue. It becomes autonomous and starts producing its own kind that is not under any form of control. That is how tumours form, and we call most of them acquired, i.e. when you are not born with it or you don’t have a generative predisposition. There are some that run in families but they are in the minority. The most common, however, is acquired. Nobody prays for it, but they do occur. Is surgery the only solution for tumours? Most brain tumours — 98 per cent of them — need to be operated. Why is brain surgery so expensive? Brain surgery is in the range of cardiac (cardiovascular) surgery. Surgeries that are expensive in the country would be brain, cardiac and maybe renal transplant. They are, more or less, in the same bracket when it comes to cost because the equipment you use for brain surgery is totally different and disease-specific. There is something to open the skull; something to go through the nose, because, sometimes, we go through the nostrils to enter the base of the skull. Sometimes, like I said, you can also go through a blood vessel to enter the brain. All those pieces of equipment are high-tech and quite expensive. That makes it relatively much more expensive. For one of the patients that I saw on Monday, there is no way she is going to be able to afford it. She is probably going to raise coins and then we pray that by the time she gets the money, it is not too late. It’s painful but it’s what we see regularly because it’s not something of N10,000 or N50,000, even in government hospitals. It is not N100,000 — it is in the hundreds of thousands (of naira), most of the time. So, it’s challenging for people in our economy. There seems to be a shortage of neurosurgeons in Nigeria. Why is this? There is a shortage of neurosurgeons, just like any other speciality. It takes seven years after graduating from the university, unlike other sub-specialities — some are four, some five. And I think that is a major turn-off. Also, it is more demanding. We still do many hours of surgery, compared to others. It has changed also in the last decade. Surgeries that we used to spend 12 to 14 hours on are now much shorter because we now have the facilities. The facilities are getting better; it (infrastructure) is not there yet. The better the facility, the shorter the time spent in the theatre. So, many people do not want to come and spend so many hours in the theatre. You spend seven years of training and most of our surgeons, especially in this part of the world, just have to be awake at night because you have to act fast. What are some of the early signs of neurological conditions? What we tell people is, the most common presentation is constant headaches. If someone has constant headaches for two to three days and it does not go with paracetamol, you should see a doctor. Yes, we know that the most common will be tension headaches but, at least, let the doctor see to confirm that it is tension headaches because it can also be a migraine or myriad other neurological conditions. If there is weakness in any part of the body at any time, even though it is transient, see a medical doctor. Cases like, ‘I woke up and one part of my body was weak. I could not lift my hand or leg, but after a few hours, it (the pain) disappeared. It was a spiritual attack.’ No, they should see a doctor because that may be a stroke that is about to happen. Or their speech becomes slurred. They say, ‘I tried to speak. I don’t know how it occurs.’ The moment they notice it, they should see a doctor. It could also be visual impairment. The first thing they should do is see an ophthalmologist to confirm that it is within the eye socket because anything beyond the eye socket means that it is coming from the brain. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com