Lara Adejoro A psychiatrist and member of the Lagos State Government Psychosocial Support Group for COVID-19 patients, Dr. Oluseun Ogunnubi, says when officials call people whose tests are positive for the contagion, they resort to cursing health workers, while also rejecting the outcomes in the name of God. Ogunnubi, alongside another expert, Dr. Olamijulo Fatiregun, said the reactions were due to the stigmatisation usually encountered by people who test positive to the global pandemic, warning against stigmatising COVID-19 survivors, and saying discrimination against them could push them to suicide or result in psychosis. Psychosis is a severe mental disorder in which thought and emotions are so impaired that contact is lost with external reality. The experts, Consultant Psychiatrist at Grace Cottage Clinic, Ilupeju, Dr. Oluseun Ogunnubi; and Consultant Psychiatrist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Dr. Olamijulo Fatiregun, lamented that many people who test positive for COVID-19 stay away from isolation centres for fear of stigmatisation. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise in an interview, Ogunnubi said the stigmatising of persons diagnosed with or treated for COVID-19 is taking mental toll on patients. Ogunnubi, who is also a lecturer at the University of Lagos, said COVID-19 patients who are stigmatised may become suicidal, suffer from psychosis and other psychosocial issues, including agitation, anxiety and sleep impairment, as well as poor eating habit. Recall that the Lagos State government had said that 2,683 active cases of COVID-19 in the communities were yet to turn up for admission in care centres, either due to ignorance or fear of stigmatisation or preference for home care. “Those who are not able to overcome stigmatisation will become agitated, withdrawn, they will have poor self-esteem, and some may become suicidal. “It can lead to anxiety, panic attack and they may feel that people are talking about them and before you know it, they begin to have psychotic experience. It can lead to poor sleeping habit and poor eating habit,” Ogunnubi noted. Comparing COVID-19 infection with mental illness, the psychiatrist said the contagion was plagued with a lot of stigmatisation, just like mental illness. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com