Wale Oyewale and Daud Olatunji Seven persons lost their lives on Wednesday in two separate auto crashes in Ibadan, Oyo State, and Papalanto, Ogun State. In Ibadan, four persons died when a truck belonging to a popular dairy company lost control and rammed into a Micra cab and three commercial motorcycles. Three passengers in the cab and a motorcyclist reportedly died. Eyewitnesses said the commercial motorcyclist died on the spot, while the other victims passed away before getting to hospital. It was gathered that the accident occurred at the Alesinloye roundabout, Dugbe Road, as the truck reportedly suffered brake failure. A trader in the area, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the truck hit the cab and the three motorcycles heading for the Dugbe area of the city. It was gathered that the bodies of the victims had been deposited in a morgue. The Federal Road Safety Corps, Oyo State Command, confirmed the crash, stating that apart from the truck, which swerved into the bush, the vehicles and motorcycles had been cleared off the road. The Sector Commander of the FRSC in the state, Mrs Chukwurah Uche, said, “Yes, we lost four persons – one male and three females. The truck that caused the crash did not block the road. “Traffic has been flowing freely. We suspect brake failure on the part of the truck.” Similarly, three persons died, while two others sustained injuries when a truck ran over a Toyota car on the Papa-Ilaro Road in the Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State on Wednesday. The accident, which occurred around 8.25am at Ajegunle on the Papa-Ilaro Road, involved a MAN diesel truck and a Toyota Corolla car with number plate JJJ 91 GD. The Public Relations Officer, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Ogun State, Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the accident. He explained that the crash was caused by the truck driver, who was on top speed and suddenly lost control due to brake failure and collided with the Toyota car travelling in the opposite direction. He added that three persons in the car lost their lives, while two persons in the truck, which had no number plate, sustained varying degrees of injury. Akinbiyi said the injured victims had been taken to the Ilaro General Hospital, while the remains of the deceased were deposited in the hospital’s mortuary. He stated, “The truck was inbound Papalanto from Ilaro, while the Toyota Corolla car was outbound Papalanto to Ilaro when the crash occurred. “According to eyewitnesses, the truck was on top speed when the driver suddenly lost control due to brake failure and collided with the car that was coming in the opposite direction.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com