The Coronavirus pandemic has changed the way we live and operate, and it has brought about a new normal that today defines how the world functions. The lifestyle and business adjustments made to suppress the rapid spread of the virus have completely changed the face of the digital construct worldwide. As a result, the digital world has experienced, like never before, active participation, recorded a huge number of new users, and even organisations have had to fast track their digital transformation journey as a business continuity imperative. According to data from The Nigeria Communication Commission, the number of active internet subscribers in the country has grown remarkably in recent months, from 126 million subscribers in December 2019 to over 140 million subscribers as of May 2020. Despite the numerous advantage the usage of this interconnected digital technologies has, there are also risks lurking in the corner capable of hurting individuals and businesses. Indeed, there has been a noticeable increase in cyber-attacks and cyber-frauds in recent times. Cyber attackers are taking advantage of the ongoing pandemic to compromise individuals and organisations. Data from Securelist, Kaspersky’s Lab for technical research and cyber-trend analyses, revealed that the first quarter of 2020 recorded an 80% increase in distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks globally. Cyber-criminals use DDoS to deliberately compromise a machine or network by flooding the targeted systems with excessive false requests in an attempt to overload systems and perpetuate fraud. Financial institutions are usually the targets of such attacks. Another report showed a 26% increase in spam email, a 35% increase in malware detections, and a 30% increase in impersonations since January 2020. These threat implications could vary from business disruption to identity theft and fraud, critical data breach, or third-party failures. The cyber-attacks conversation took a drastic turn when cybercriminals successfully targeted and routed Twitter last week Wednesday in a high-profile incident that resulted in huge monetary losses. The ugly event affected former President of the United States of America, Barack Obama, Americas Democratic presidential front-runner Joe Biden, Mike Bloomberg, and several tech billionaires including Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and Tesla CEO Elon Musk. Celebrities Kanye West and his wife, Kim Kardashian West, were also hacked. The criminals temporarily took over these high-profile Twitter Accounts offering enormous incentives for non-existent quick-win investments. Twitter described the incidence as a “coordinated social engineering attack” that targeted some of its employees with access to internal systems and tools. These tools were then used to take control of many high-profile and verified accounts and tweet from them. Although the company said they immediately locked down the affected accounts and removed the tweets posted by the attackers, and also temporarily blocked verified users from tweeting while the company investigated the issue, bostonglobe.com reported that Twitter’s shares fell 3% on the news of the hackings. The breach at tech behemoths like Twitter shows the level of sophistication that these cyber-attacks have attained. It validates the fears that anyone or organisations can become a victim of these attacks. The surest ways to protect oneself or organisation from irrecoverable financial loss is to have cyber insurance in place and rest assured of compensation in the event you or your organisation falls victims of this global hydra-headed monster. At a recent webinar hosted by Leadway Assurance, to examine the rising cyber-risks in local and international businesses the Executive director, General Insurance, Leadway Assurance, Adetola Adegbayi revealed that Leadway’s management over the years had evolved several innovations that would help soothe victims of their loss in the event of an incident from a cyber attack. Adegbayi said the Leadway cyber insurance policy is now optimised to provide first-party coverage and third-party liability risk covers on cyber perils for organisations in the face of the increasing sophistication of these attacks, while the individual policy coverage is on the verge of introduction into the market once approved by the National Insurance Commission. For additional information on the Leadway’s cyber insurance, you can call our professional advisors for additional guidance via our virtual communication channels – 08129997042, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com.