Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Federal High Court, Ado Ekiti Division, on Friday dismissed a suit challenging the conduct of the Peoples Democratic Party ward congresses in Ekiti State by the National Working Committee. The case with suit number FHC/AD/CS 14/2020 was filed by members loyal to Senator Biodun Olujimi seeking invalidation of the ward congresses which returned members loyal to former Governor Ayodele Fayose as winners of the exercise held in March. The applicants in the suit filed by one Olalekan Oladimeji and others urged the court to invalidate the ward congresses conducted by Haruna Mani-led PDP committee on the premise that the provisions of the party, the 1999 constitution as well as the Electoral Act were breached. Joined in the suit were the PDP, Independent National Electoral Commission, Inspector-General of Police, Taraba State Deputy Governor and Chairman of the Congress Committee, Haruna Mani and Chairman of the Congress Appeal Committee, Chief Olusola Akanmode, and others. Delivering her verdict, Justice Uche Agomoh, said the case was not justifiable because it was a matter that emanated from intra-party affairs. The judge also agreed with the argument canvassed by the defendants that the ward executives, whose elections were being contested in court, were necessary parties and ought to have been joined as defendants in the suit. She said, “The preliminary objection is successful, because it is not justiceable to shut out necessary parties who ought to come to the court to show whether they procured nomination form or not. This deprives them of fair hearing. This suit is hereby dismissed.” Justice Agomoh awarded a cost of N200,000 against the plaintiffs, which is  to be paid to the 1st,  4th and 5th defendants  on or before 1st September, 2020. Counsel to the defendants, Kolapo Kolade, said the verdict was a clear confirmation that issues surrounding internal affairs of a party could only be resolved through party’s internal mechanisms. But counsel to the plaintiffs, Stephen Ademuagun, said his clients would appeal the ruling. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com