Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi Residents of the Gwallameji community in the Bauchi metropolis woke up on Thursday to find the body of newly born baby at a refuse dump behind Palm Beach Lodge in the area. The body of the baby girl was suspected to have been dumped by her yet-to-be identified mother after delivery. Our correspondent, who was at the scene where the baby was dumped around 11.15am, saw several persons gathered near the dump and discussing the incident. Many of them were heard raining curses on the mother of the baby for her supposed wicked act. It was observed that the baby was dumped with her umbilical cord and the placenta as they were not removed. A resident of the area, Abubakar Idris, who claimed to have first discovered the baby, said he was with his brother picking up used plastic bottles from the dump when he saw the body. He said he became scared and sad as a result of the discovery. The 13-year-old Idris Abubakar stated, “My brother and I were picking waste plastic bottles and I was about picking one when I saw a human head. I didn’t believe my eyes; then, I checked again and discovered that it was really a human head and then saw the complete body. “I immediately called my brother to come and see, but ran away from the place. We saw a man trekking and we called him and told him what we saw; he went to the place and saw the baby. “The man asked us if we knew anybody around the area and we went to call our neighbour. I also called my mother, who came to see it.” The Sarkin Gwallameji, Sanusi Sani, who spoke with our correspondent at the scene, said he was sad when he saw the baby. He said he was informed about the incident by his commander, whose house was close to the dump. According to him, this is not the first time such is happening in the mostly student populated area. He stated, “Honestly, I was very sad about what I heard and what I also saw with my eyes here. A similar thing happened some years back when we found a newborn baby in a well filled with water. “This is not a good thing, because so many people are in need of children, but here we are seeing a baby, whom God gave to someone, but she threw her here and allowing her to die. Honestly, the whole community is not happy about this.” Sani said from the observation and investigation, most babies found in the Gwallameji area were brought from other places and dumped there. The community leader said that he immediately informed the Yelwa Divisional Police Headquarters about the incident and some personnel were sent to the scene. He added that the community had started investigating the matter to determine where the baby was brought from and who threw her away. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Ahmed Wakili, confirmed the incident to our correspondent in a telephone interview. Wakili said investigation into the incident had begun. He stated, “Yes, it is true that an abandoned baby was found this morning in the Gwallameji area and the community informed the Yelwa Divisional Police Station. Our men went there and took pictures and discovered that the baby had started decaying. “We have launched an investigation into the matter and efforts are on to identify and arrest the culprit so that she can face the full wrath of the law.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 