Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin Former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and former Kwara State Governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed, and the state branch of the All Progressives Congress have commiserated with the state Governor, Mallam Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, whose father, Abdulganiyu Abdulrazaq (SAN), died on Saturday. The late Senior Advocate of Nigeria died in the early hours of Saturday at the age of 93 years. Born in 1927, the late Abdulrazaq was the Mutawali of Ilorin and Tafida of Zazzau, Zaria, and until his death, the Chairman of the Nigerian Body of Benchers. The family said burial arrangements would be announced later. Saraki in his condolence message titled, ‘AGF Abdulrazaq: Kwara has lost a Statesman’, described the death of Abdulrazaq as a loss of one of the statesmen produced by Kwara State. He said, “The late AGF as he was fondly called by people who knew him will be sorely missed and I believe he did his best in the service of our people in Kwara State and Nigeria as a lawyer, politician, diplomat and President of the Nigerian Stock Exchange.” Saraki commiserated with “the entire family of the deceased, the Emir of Ilorin, Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, the entire Ilorin Emirate, and the people of Kwara State. He also prayed that Almighty Allah forgives the sins of the late Abdulrazaq and grants him a place in Aljannah Firdaus”. READ ALSO: Magu probe an achievement, says Malami Former Kwara governor Ahmed consoled the incumbent governor and his entire family describing his father as an enigmatic statesman and one of the state’s most accomplished products. “I offer my heartfelt condolences and sympathies to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and the Abdulrazaq family on the sad death of their father, Alhaji Abdulganiyu Folorunsho Abdulrazaq (SAN),” he said. In his message, State Chairman of Kwara APC, Bashir Bolarinwa described the passage of the patriarch of the Abdulrazaq family as a colossal loss not only to the family but to the nation at large. “On behalf of the executive committee, elders, and entire membership of our party, l commiserate with the Executive Governor of Kwara State, Mallam Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and the entire Abdulrazaq family over the passage of their patriarch,” he said.