DAUD OLATUNJI An angry mob on Saturday set ablaze a Dangote truck for killing one motorcyclist and injuring three others. The incident happened around 8am on the old Ibadan Roundabout Road, Ago-Iwoye, in the Ijebu-North Local Government Area of Ogun State. The accident involved a Dangote truck and a motorcycle. The Public Relations Officer of the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the incident. Akinbiyi said it occurred as a result of over speeding by the truck driver. He said the truck driver lost control and ran over a moving motorcycle, killing the rider and injuring three others. Irked by the incident, an angry mob besieged the road and set ablaze the truck while the driver was reportedly beaten to a pulp. The driver was later rescued by officers of TRACE, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Federal Road Safety Corps and the police. Akinbiyi, in a statement, explained that the Dangote truck driver was coming from Ago-Iwoye inward Ijebu-Ode when the incident happened. He said, “The driver, due to overspeeding, could not control the vehicle as it approached Ibadan Roundabout and collided with a motorcycle rider who was trying to negotiate the roundabout at the time. “The driver of the Dangote truck was later apprehended after making attempts to run away and was beaten to a pulp by the angry mob which also set the truck on fire. “But for the intervention of men of TRACE, police, NSCDC and the FRSC, the driver would have been killed and the truck would have been completely burnt down. The driver and the motor boy have been arrested and taken to Igbeba Motor Traffic Division, Ijebu-Ode.’’ He urged motorists to properly maintain their vehicles and avoid speeding especially when approaching a bend or roundabout. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 