Adeoye Oyewole The COVID-19 pandemic has changed every facet of our social life and did not spare the medical community and medical consultation with a profound effect on the patient-doctor relationship in the hospital. No time has the World Health Organisation been challenged as this period of COVID-19 pandemic because the virus being novel has come up with various clinical manifestations majorly affecting the respiratory system but also has serious manifestations in the gut, the blood system and speculatively capable of shutting down vital body systems. The mode of transmission has been generally described as being contagious through close physical contact which has necessitated prescriptions of social distancing, avoidance of physical contacts, covering of the mouth and nose as the virus could be transmitted through the air. There has been no known definitive treatment for COVID-19 but several symptomatic prescriptions are being tried with some appreciable result but prevention appears to be the most important. The initial wave of the pandemic of COVID-19 with significant deaths recorded especially in Europe for a poorly understood but novel virus has been scary. Back at home the covid-19 pandemic has had certain impacts on our health-seeking behaviour, medical consultation itself and the patient-doctor relationship. Some of the measures prescribed for preventing the spread of the disease have also come with certain mental health problems. There is definitely a surge in the incidence of generalised anxiety disorders, phobic anxiety disorders where certain persons will have heightened awareness of the possibility of having the symptoms of covid-19. Certain persons with chronic respiratory illnesses like asthma or chronic medical illnesses with difficulty in breathing would be greatly stigmatized and may not easily access medical attention in most emergency situations. There is definitely some rise in depressive illness either due to the loss of relatives to death or the negative economic implications of lockdowns prescribed. A lot of school children and university undergraduates are at home, unengaged and have had to deal with boredom which predisposes them to abusing psychoactive substances and sometimes sexual assault. Some of these psychological issues could become very serious and lose their lives through suicide or inability to promptly access medical care. There is definitely an increase in intimate partner violence as a result of social lockdown and attendant economic challenges and increased reportage of all manners of sexual assault. All these are indications of escalating mental health challenges primarily due to the fear of covid-19 and secondarily due to the measures adopted to stem its spread. People with ongoing medical conditions have been identified as a high-risk group for the fatality of COVID-19 infection. Unfortunately, the fear of covid-19 infection itself has greatly affected effective ongoing monitoring of these chronic medical conditions. A lot of people in this group have not been adequately managed either as a result of economical handicaps or lack of access to doctors due to lockdown. There are reports of increasing incidence of covid-19 infection even among our health care workers which has greatly affected the availability of doctor-patient relationships. The medical practitioners who in most cases do not have effective protective gadgets have had to observe social distancing considered safe in the process of attending to their patients. This definitely cannot be said to be optimal. Self-consultation, self-medication and recourse to traditional/herbal and spiritual healing alternatives have actually contributed to the number of deaths recorded apart from the pandemic itself.  Several unauthorised medications are being peddled by quacks as a remedy for COVID-19 infection which in themselves could be dangerous to the body systems. A lot of people with these chronic medical conditions apart from not having the opportunity of seeing their doctors are already distracted from their primary medical problems because of fear and are therefore more on the lookout for COVID-19 symptoms rather than their primary illness. The average doctor is also more conditioned by the pandemic as they over- diagnose COVID-19 infection in individuals with other serious medical problems. Medical investigations are also more skewed in the direction of COVID-19 infection rather than for ongoing medical conditions. A good number of our elites who have always had their consultations abroad cannot readily access their doctors because of their inability to travel and consult their foreign doctors who are themselves overwhelmed by the pandemic. Some are overdue for their consultation or have exhausted the particular medications given by these foreign doctors while the Nigerian doctors can only try but may not have sufficient medical history of such persons for proper management of their conditions while a good number of these elites will not even consult the Nigerian doctors hoping they can help themselves through self-medication by following the instructions of their foreign doctors on the phone or other means and will not present at the hospital until complications set in. There is an urgent need for the protocols for consulting other patients who are not COVID-19 positive to be reviewed so that they can be adequately managed and for effective protective gadgets to be available for health workers so that the fear of COVID-19 infection does not kill more than the virus itself. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 