Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Personnel of the Kaduna State Police Command  have arrested 217 suspected kidnappers, bandits, robbers, cattle rustlers and other criminal elements said to be terrorising the state. Parading the suspects in Kaduna on Wednesday, the state Commissioner of Police, Umar Muri, also displayed 43 guns, including AK-47 rifles, pistols and other items recovered from the hoodlums. The CP said the suspects were arrested between April 29 and July 22, 2020. He anchored the success recorded on the review of operational strategies of the command in collaboration with other sister security agencies. Muri also warned residents to be careful as there was proliferation of fake local and foreign currencies as well as fake transaction alerts in and outside the state. The CP said, “Today, I am delighted to inform you that the command in the last few weeks, in its onerous task of securing the lives and property of law-abiding citizens of Kaduna State, has succeeded in arresting 217 suspects for various crimes, including banditry, armed robbery, kidnapping, cattle rustling, culpable homicide, rape, shop breaking, theft and other related crimes. “During investigation, a number of recoveries were made, which included seven AK-47 rifles, one type 06 rifle with breech no. 20900, two locally-made pistols, two English-made pistols, 22 locally-made Dane guns, three revolver pistols, two revolver rifles, one Hammerli pistol with breech no. PT205731, two double-barrelled Russia-made guns and one single-barrelled gun. “We also recovered, 1,113 rounds of AK-47 live ammunition, 16 rounds of live cartridges, 26 empty shells of AK-47 bullets, 17 sharp knives/cutlasses, 11 machetes/swords, one bow and arrow, one drilling machine, 10 big sticks and a pair of scissors.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    