Sunday Aborisadeand Leke Baiyewu The Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige, has apologised to the National Assembly over the behaviour of the Minister of State in the ministry, Festus Keyamo, in the parliament last week. Ngige tendered the apology when he led Keyamo to a meeting with the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, on Tuesday. The face-off between Keyamo and the federal lawmakers last week forced the parliament to suspend the recruitment of 774,000 Nigerians under the  Special Public Works Programme 2020 being supervised by the ministry. Ngige said, “We deeply regret the incident that happened at the last visit, the altercations that followed  between my minister of state and members of the joint committees. “Therefore, we decided that as a team, we will come in force and give you the necessary information that you will need so that we can fast-track this programme.” Responding, Lawan declared that all the process undertaken so far on the recruitment by the ministry had been cancelled and that the NDE should forward a fresh plan of action to the National Assembly for approval. He said, “For me, this is an opportunity to say the home truth. Our committees were right to ask for explanation on the modalities. We stand by our committees and we are in support of the suspension of the programme. “In fact, any action taken before now is null and void. You are now going to start it all over. You said there is a need for a fresh start. This is going to be a fresh air.” But Keyamo told journalists after the brief meeting with Lawan that only the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), could ask him to halt the process he had started concerning the recruitment. He also said the directive of the National Assembly for the NDE to bring a new work plan would not work because the agency had no such powers under the law. He vowed to drag the National Assembly to the Attorney- General of the Federation and Minister of Justice if it insisted on bypassing his office to deal with the NDE on the recruitment. He said, “First of all, may I say that this distinguished National Assembly, I believe that they are the lawmakers and they desire to comply strictly with the provisions of the law. “Now, it is important that all of you read the National Directorate of Employment Act. You can see that the whole struggle today has been how to bypass me in the execution of this programme and I’m sure that you all saw that. “Now, with the provisions of the law, how they are going to do that, I don’t know. I have to go back to my principal, who is the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, to get directives. “By Section 3 of the NDE Act, I am the Chairman of the Board. The minister is the chairman of the board of the NDE. “When you say go back and bring a plan, you are still coming back to me. “Secondly, if you look at Section 15 of the NDE Act, it said the minister may give directives of a general nature to the NDE. In other words, you cannot have a work plan without coming back to the minister.” Meanwhile, the House of Representatives, on Tuesday, lambasted Ngige and Keyamo, over the suspension of the board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund. The House declared the suspension of the NSITF management illegal, while accusing Ngige of using his office to perpetrate illegalities. The House, at Tuesday’s plenary, resolved to investigate the activities of Ngige, Keyamo and the Minister of Power, Saleh Mamman, who also sacked the Managing Director of the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc, Marilyn Amobi, in a controversial manner. The House set up an ad hoc committee to investigate “the procedural breaches of the presidential directives by both the Minister of Labour and Employment and his counterpart in Power, the alleged breach in procurement procedures by these agencies, and financial malpractices and malfeasance by these agencies.” The panel is to report back to the House within one week. In a motion moved by Mr Leke Abejide, which the lawmakers unanimously adopted, the House called for the lifting of the suspension imposed on the NSITF management by Ngige. Moving the motion, Abejide decried how chief executives of agencies “are being removed these days.” Speaking on the matter, Mr James Faleke accused Ngige of alleged nepotism. Faleke said Ngige moved against the NSITF management after it opposed his alleged bid to pad the agency’s budget with N2bn. He said, “The Minister of Labour has abused his office and if I were the President, I will get him removed based on (these) facts. They submitted the budget of the NSITF to him and singlehandedly, he altered the budget; and when the officials of the agency protested, he threatened to remove them. “The minister inserted a N2bn project in the budget as commission for collection. This has never happened in that agency. He wanted the management to be out of office so that he can implement that budget. So, he removed all the people, who we against that decision and left it to the people who never knew about the argument between them.” Faleke further accused Ngige of using his wife, who allegedly works in the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation, to award contracts. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, however, cautioned Faleke on the allegations. Another member, Mr Sada Soli, however, corroborated Faleke, accusing Ngige of excesses. Ngige later attacked Faleke and described the issues raised by him as an abuse of parliamentary process. In a statement by the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations in the ministry, Charles Akpan, Ngige denied the allegation of budget padding, noting that the final product of a national budget was the making of the National Assembly, which he said left him in no position whatsoever to influence the budget. In the statement dated July 7, 2020, and titled, ‘Ngige to Faleke: Learn not to abuse parliamentary process’, the minister said,  “It is instructive here to note that ministers do not award contracts and neither sit in the ministerial tenders board nor tenders board of parastatals. “Clearly, even the Ministry of Labour’s representatives on the NSITF main board are not part of the tenders board of that parastatal. So, how, when and where did the minister sit in that board to choose, much less pad the budget? “It is therefore easy to attribute Faleke’s motion on the floor of the House on Tuesday to a consummate parliamentary mischief or outright ignorance of the Bureau of Public Procurement Act, or both.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   