Olaleye Aluko The Secretary to the Osun State Government, Wole Oyebamiji, who has recovered after testing positive for COVID-19 two weeks ago, said he contracted the virus as part of job hazards. Oyebamiji, a septuagenarian, added that state government officials, including him, had to go out often to sensitise the people to the virus. The SSG shared his experiences on Saturday, according to a release by the state Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Funke Egbemode. The state government had on June 30, through the Commissioner of Health, Dr Rafiu Isamotu, announced that Oyebamiji tested positive for COVID-19. While narrating his experience, Oyebamiji said going by what he went through, there was no sense in describing the virus as a scam. He said, “I want to tell Nigerians that COVID-19 is real though not a death sentence. I will urge Nigerians to adhere strictly to the directives of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control. “We must adhere strictly to the use of face masks, social distancing and avoiding crowded places among other precautionary measures. We must know that government is spending fortunes to ensure that the citizens live healthy and this must not be abused by our carefree attitude to simple health tips.” Speaking on how he contracted the disease in spite of the safety measures put in place by government, Oyebamiji said, “only God knows because I did everything possible to stay safe. My infection was not due to carelessness but rather a job hazard. “All cabinet members were on the field to ensure that the spread of the virus was contained. We did our best to contain the spread of the virus. Cabinet members can’t just go into hiding. We just have to maintain a delicate balance between staying safe and doing the job we took an oath to do.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    