Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the appointment of 38 non-career and one career ambassadors-designate that would represent the country on foreign missions. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had requested the approval of the Senate for the confirmation of 42 nominees. However, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Adamu Bulkachuwa, while presenting his report, said there were irreconcilable issues with two nominees from Niger and Yobe States. The only career ambassador-designate on the list is from the Federal Capital Territory. Among  the non-career ones are, two journalists, Messrs Debo Adesina (Oyo) and Oma Djebah (Delta) The list also included Dare Awoniyi (Kogi), who is the son of the late Sunday Awoniyi, former Chairman of the Arewa Consultative Forum. A careful observation of the list indicated that three states, (Kwara, Kano, Oyo) have three nominees each while three others, (Borno, Benue, Adamawa), got two slots each. Twenty states had one slot each while four states had no nominee. The full list of the non-career ambassadors-designate confirmed are, Umar Suleiman (Adamawa); Kelvin Peter (Adamawa); Chief Elejah Onyeagba (Anambra); Prof. Monique Ekpong (Cross River); Ominyi N. Eze (Ebonyi); Yamah Mohammed Musa (Edo); Maj. Gen. C. O. Ugwu (Enugu); Dr. Hajara I. Salim (Gombe); Amb. Yahaya Lawal (Katsina); Ademola Seriki (Lagos); Chief Sarafa Tunji Ishola (Ogun); Adejare Bello (Osun); John Usanga (Akwa Ibom); Hamisu Umar Takalmawa (Kano); Philip Ikurusi (Bayelsa); Hon. Tarzcor Terhemen (Benue); Al-Bishir Ibrahim Al-Hussain (Borno); Obiezu Ijeoma Chinyerem (Imo); Ali M. Magashi (Jigawa); Prof. M. A. Makarfi (Kaduna). Others are: Henry John Omaku (Nasarawa); Sadiya Ahmad Nuhu (Kano); Adeshina Alege (Oyo); Shehu Abdullahi Yibaikwai (Plateau); Maureen Tamuno (Rivers), Faruk Yabo (Sokoto); Abubakar Moriki (Zamfara); Adamu M. Hassan (Taraba); Abubakar D. Ibrahim Siyi (Bauchi); Paul Oga Adikwu (Benue); Jazuli Imam Galadanci (Kano); Dare Sunday Awoniyi (Kogi); Ibrahim Kayode Laaro (Kwara), Abioye Bello (Kwara); Zara Maazu Umar (Kwara); Mrs. Nimi Akinkugbe (Ondo); Debo Adesina (Oyo); Ms. Folakemi Akinyele (Oyo); and Oma Djebah (Delta). Mr Suleiman Sani (FCT) career ambassador.