Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti An Ekiti State Chief Magistrates’ Court, on Monday, ordered the remand of 17-year-old Peter Ojo in the Ado Ekiti Correctional Centre over alleged conspiracy and murder of a 38-year-old carpenter, Olufalayi Obadare. The carpenter, who left his Ilawe Road residence to work at a site in the Olujoda area of the state capital on June 16, 2020, was attacked by a mob, who beat him to death after labelling him a robber. The state police command charged Ojo with conspiracy to murder and murder. The police prosecutor, Inspector Caleb Leramo, told the court that the defendant committed the offence in Ado Ekiti. Leramo said, “The defendant conspired with others at large and murdered a 38-year-old man, Olufalayi Obadare. The defendant conspired with some mob in his neighbourhood and partook in beating up the deceased, which eventually led to his death. “The offences contravened sections 324 and 319(1) of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012.” The prosecutor urged the court to remand the defendant in a correctional centre pending legal advice from the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. The court did not take the plea of the defendant. Chief Magistrate Abdulhamid Lawal ordered the remand of Ojo in the correctional centre pending the issuance of the legal advice. Lawal adjourned the case till July 30, 2020, for mention. The wife of the slain carpenter, Mrs Yemi Obadare, told our correspondent after the court session, “We want justice done in this matter. How can they just pick on somebody and kill him because they said they thought he was a robber even when he did not have anything except his phone on him? “Everybody involved in my husband’s murder should not escape justice. The long arms of the law should catch up with all those involved in the killing and who have turned the joy in the family to sorrow.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 