Kunle Shonaike info@automedicsafrica.com 08080806686 Coolant The internal combustion engine is referred to as heat producing engine owing to the high temperature that is generated within the engine during combustion. The temperature is as high as the melting temperature of the metal used in the construction of the engine, which could lead to the deformation of engine components which can freeze up the engine. Hence a very effective cooling system is needed to help take off this heat from the engine to avoid overheating and deformation. The medium that help transfers the heat from the engine is called coolant. The coolant helps to regulate the temperature of the engine thereby maintaining it at its best operating range. It also serves as a medium that warms the interior of the vehicle in cold temperate region. It is made up of de-ionised water and other chemical compositions that improve the performance of coolant in terms of raising its boiling point, reduce freezing point, anti-foam, dye and also anti-corrosion agents helping to prevent corrosion as a result of coolant coming in contact with metallic surfaces. You would have noticed that coolant comes in variety of colours in different vehicle. This is because there are different types of coolants depending on the composition of chemical in it. The major ones are: The inorganic additive technology coolant: This is one of the oldest forms of coolant available. It consists of silica, phosphate, borate etc and have a characteristic colour of either blue or green. The organic acid technology coolant: This type consists of chemicals that give better protection for the engine cooling system. It has a longer life span than the inorganic type. They consist of caboxylate and popularly characterised with orange or red colour. Hybrid organic acid technology: It is a blend of the above two technology, a mixture of carboxylate (an organic acid technology) and silicate (an inorganic additive coolant). It is long lasting and also protects the cooling system. How do I know the level of coolant and type specified for my vehicle? The coolant like other fluids should be checked regularly to know its level. The right level is known when the engine temperature is cold and before the engine starts operating. There is a reservoir or expansion tank close to the radiator underneath the bonnet with a min max mark; this is where you know the level of coolant in the system. Never fill the reservoir to brink as the spaces above the full mark is meant for expansion when engine is hot. It should be made up to mark if the level is low. If the shortage is frequent, there might be a need to take the vehicle for an inspection. If the level of the coolant is above the full mark with the engine cold, it would also be a sign of a problem and this should be resolved to avoid overheating. It is however wrong to check the level of coolant in the radiator as this damage the radiator cap. As for the types to use, the best is to go through the owner’s manual to check for manufacturers specification. This is because different manufacturers uses different compositions in their cooling system, even when the colour looks alike, the composition at times could be different. In a case where top up is needed, water could be used. Never fill the reservoir to brink as the spaces above the full mark is meant for expansion when engine is hot How often should I change the coolant in the vehicle? Being a fluid, it would definitely lose its quality over time, it is a good idea to have the coolant replaced in a minimum of two years interval, and this would require a flush of the system. Coolant comes as either a concentrate or pre mixed, if what you get is premixed, this could be used directly when the old coolant is drained off. If it is a concentrate, there would be a need to mix it with de-mineralised water. Check on the label for the ratio of mixture, there are manufactures who uses 50:50 or 60:40, that is if the concentrate specify 50:50 and your car uses 4 litres of coolant, then you would need 2 litres of the concentrate and 2 litres of water. Engine overheating could cause problems such as cylinder head gasket failure, cylinder head deformation and could also ruin the engine. Checking the coolant level before going out could help prevent problems and also reduce stress on the engine. Please note that the radiator cap should not be opened when the engine is hot to avoid injury.  This piece is written by my mentee Ibrahim Ogundele Feedback I drive Honda Pilot 2003 model and it’s showing SRS, VTM 4 on the dash board, I ran a scan computer test and it showed that the vehicle is okay.  Please, what should I do with SRS. Anonymous If the SRS light is red, it is an indication that the airbags and seatbelt are faulty, which should show some codes under the body system. The VTM4 is the variable torque management 4, which falls under the powertrain. If the light is green there’s no fault but if it’s yellow or red. It should show a code if a scan is run on the powertrain system. Please, explain what to do to correct the indication of ‘check’ on my vehicle’s dashboard. The vehicle is Highlander 2007 model. Result after I scanned the vehicle showed: “02 sensor circuit low voltage bank 1 sensor 2” Thanks. Anonymous The only way to know why the check light is on is to run a scan on the powertrain system. Also you didn’t furnish me with the exact code. My car refused to start recently after driving to check someone. I called a roadside but he couldn’t locate  the fault even from  the brain box. What should I do? Thank you. Anonymous I will rather prefer you run a scan on the whole vehicle systems. It is the result that will guide us on what to do. I really enjoyed your auto programme. My car is Sienna 2000 model. It’s stiff steering it though there is oil in the fuel pump? Wat is the cause? Prince I believe the power steering has failed, replacing the pump will solve the problem. I use a Rav4 . The fan is connected directly and it makes a noise. What is the possible solution to return it back to its normal position? Anonymous What you need is a good automotive electrician to reverse what has been done to run the fan directly. My car has overheating issues which damaged its radiator, gasket and engine cylinder. Can the cylinder be changed and will it still be perfect? I want to know because my mechanic told me that I would need to buy another engine, when other parts are okay except the cylinder head that has folded. Oil mixes with water from the radiator. Anonymous Yes the cylinder head can be replaced, but if the mechanic believes that the block is also damaged, you might have to replace the complete engine.  Generic  codes P0871 OD: Pressure switch rationality fault Meaning The powertrain control module uses three pressure switches to monitor the fluid pressure in the LR, 2/4, and OD clutch circuits. The pressure switches are continuously monitored for the correct states in each gear. When is the code detected? This code is set if the OD pressure switch is open or closed at the wrong time in a given gear. Possible symptoms Possible causes  P0872: Transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’ circuit low Meaning The engine control module monitors the transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’. The ECM sets the OBDII when the transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’ is not to factory specifications. Possible causes  P0873: Transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’ circuit high Meaning The engine control module monitors the transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’. The ECM sets the OBDII when the transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’ is not to factory specifications. Possible causes  P0874: Transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’ circuit intermittent Meaning The engine control module monitors the transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’. The ECM sets the OBDII when the transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘C’ is not to factory specifications. Possible causes  P0875 : Transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘D’ circuit Meaning The engine control module monitors the transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘D’. The ECM sets the OBDII when the transmission fluid pressure sensor/switch ‘D’ is not to factory specifications. Possible causes Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  