Dayo Ojerinde The Lions Club District Governor, District 404-B1 Nigeria, Mrs Oluremi Odunmbaku, has urged Nigerians to obey the government’s guidelines on COVID-19, saying this will help to defeat the virus. Odunmbaku also advised Nigerians to desist from spreading fake news about the virus, noting that the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and other related government agencies have been established to authentic information about COVID-19. The DG at a briefing in Lagos told the federal and state governments to increase testing capacities, adding that the more test carried out, the more cases that would be detected. She said, “People should listen to the government and do less of rumour-mongering and spreading false information about the virus. The government on her own part should also do a lot of enlightenment because most people don’t believe that COVID-19 exists, they see coronavirus as a disease from overseas. “We need to have more of public enlightenment in different local languages, if possible, in dialects, so that it can effectively reach the grassroots. People need to abide by the health tips provided by the NCDC and the ministries of health in order to flatten the curve. There is also the need to increase testing capacities in all states, this will help detect more cases.” Odunmbaku also highlighted project the club wants to embark on in the health sector in its bid to support the government. “We have three projects at hand; the Lion diabetes centre which we are about to complete at Igando General Hospital; the Badagry Eye Clinic project is also ongoing at the General Hospital, Badagry and we are also proposing to establish a dialysis centre at ring road Hospital in Ibadan. “The club will screen people for diabetes in November; we hope that the screening will make people aware that diabetes is a dangerous disease if not attacked early,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com