Johnny Edward At least eight former footballers are battling to survive in the wake of the health-care shortages in the country, which have amplifed the challenges posed by COVID-19, The PUNCH reports. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control announced 404 new cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria, shooting the total number of infections in the country to 42,208. The new cases announced on the NCDC’s official Twitter page on Wednesday evening, according to the ex-footballers, have affected non-COVID-19 patients in recieving proper medical care from the hospitals in the country. Paul Obiakor, a former national team goalkeeper, who is recovering from a heart surgery, told The PUNCH that despite the successful surgery he had on Tuesday, he was still owing the hospital where he underwent the surgery N2,000,050. “COVID-19 has made it pretty difficult to offset my outstanding bills at the hospital. I’m still in my ward but hopefully I will be discharged on Friday (today), Obiakor told The PUNCH. “I would be in an isolated place in Abuja where I’d be visiting the hospital for treatment.” Chukwuma Nwoha, a member of the Golden Eaglets that won the maiden U-17 World Cup in China in 1985, is currently bedridden as a result of leg problems that has proven difficult to heal after medications and surgeries. Recently, Nwoha went through the surgeon’s knife at the Federal Medical Centre. “It’s been tough but I have undergone surgery thanks to Chikelue Iloenyosi and Nwankwo Kanu, who helped me with funds for the operation,” Nwoha told The PUNCH on Thursday. “I just hope COVID-19 ends soon as it affects my daily survival.” Kadiri Ikhana, a member of the 1980 Africa Cup of Nations winning squad also revealed that after two major surgeries to fix his badly distorted hip bones, he is struggling to keep up with his recovery plans in a private hospital in Abeokuta. “I’m coping but it has not been easy buy we have to be grateful for life,” Ikhana said. Charles Bassey, another member of the 1980 squad, has been struggling for two years with debilitating arthritis that has rendered him immobile. He survives on expensive painkillers and drugs that he can hardly afford. “I’ve received help from some quarters, but I’m getting better. We all know what’s going on now globally, that has made it difficult for me,” Bassey told The PUNCH. Ex-Eagles goalkeeper Emmanuel Okala, has been battling with poor sight, diabetes and debilitating arthritis for several years. Ex-international Segun Odegbami also disclosed that his former teammate Shafiu Mohamed lives in total neglect, poverty and deteriorating health in Taraba State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 