Patrick Odey, Uyo Gunmen suspected to be members of rival cults, on Sunday, attacked Inen Ikot Eteye and Ikot Inyang communities in the Orukanam Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, and killed two persons and kidnapped one other. A community source told journalists in Uyo on Monday that the incident happened around 7pm. According to the source, one of the victims, identified as Okon Ibanga, an operator of a pub in the area, was killed during the clash, while the second victim, who lived near the community market, was hacked to death. The source said the two victims died on the spot after several gunshots were fired at their bodies, adding that a welder was kidnapped in the neighbouring Ikot Inyang village An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the entire village was thrown into panic by the gunshots. He stated, “I ran away from my house since yesterday (Sunday) to hide in another village. When we heard the gunshots, we knew that the cultists were around. Before we knew it, two young men had been gunned down. “Right now, our village is not safe for the residents. The cultists always attack rival members, but now, they operate from house to house every night stealing, killing and kidnapping. “The person they kidnapped from another village is a welder, who was doing well in his trade, but later became broke and returned home. We don’t know why he was kidnapped. “There is usually shooting here every night and we don’t know what to do. We live in fear. By 6pm, you can’t see anybody on the road.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnudam Frederick, who confirmed the incident, said the prime suspect had been arrested “I have just reached out to the DPO of Orukam, who confirmed that there was a case of robbery and cultism and one of the principal suspects had been arrested,” he told our correspondent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 