Kunle Shonaike The steering is one of the major components that help to ease the manoeuvring of vehicle. It consists of linkages that help to convert the turning of the steering wheels to either left or right. Have you ever tried turning your steering wheel af the engine is not running? If you have tried this out you would see that it requires a more effort to turn the steering wheel, compared to when the engine is running. Almost all production vehicles would have one or more form of steering assist on them. The type used depends on the year and model of the vehicle. Common types are the hydraulic, electro hydraulic and the electric type of steering assist. The hydraulic type utilises the use of a mechanical pump operated by the engine through a drive belt. Also, the electro hydraulic type uses an electricity to operate the power steering pump to give the necessary steering assist. This, however, is independent on the engine and in cases like these the pump is always buried in places that it could be cooled by air. The electric steering aassist uses an electric motor to provide assist on the steering. It is located either at the steering column or on the rack, depending on the vehicle’s make and model. Of the three common type, the hydraulic and the electro hydraulic type use pressurised fluid to reduce steering effort thereby making vehicle manoeuvring an easy task. Aside from this primary function of the fluid , it helps to lubricate the internal components of the pump and steering rack. The fluid also serves as a coolant and helps to wash off dirts that might have built up in the steering hydraulic system. The durability of the power steering system depends on the quality of fluid used in it. The fluid also cools the system. How do I know the right level of power steering fluid? On many power steering, the reservoir has a min and max mark. This shows clearly the level of fluid. while some would have the cold and the hot mark, the best time to get the right level of fluid is when it is hot. When checking the level of the power steering fluid, run the engine for some time, then switch it off to get the level. If it is lower than minimum, fill it up. Do not exceed the maximum limit as this could cause a spill of fluid around the vehicle. What type of fluid should be used? When it comes to fluid type, sticking to manufacturers specification should always be adhered to, and in many cases, there is an inscription on the reservoir cover. Can I use ATF as power steering fluid? The automatic transmission fluid is known to be a good hydraulic fluid that can also function as power steering fluid. This should however not be taken as general as some systems are fluid specific and as such, should not be replaced by ATF. This should also not be used on the electro hydraulic system except the manufacturer specifies otherwise  as this would cause a damage to the pump. How often should the power steering fluid be serviced? The service life of a power steering fluid varies. A two-year interval is a good time to ensure a healthy system. During servicing, it is advisable that the reservoir be removed and the filter in it properly cleaned. Thereafter, put it in a new fluid and bleed the system to purge out air from it. For vehicle that has a power steering cooler, the fins of the cooler should be checked and ensure that it is not clogged to prevent overheating of the fluid which could affect the effectiveness of the fluid. As stated earlier, most newer models no longer use the conventional type of power steering pump and as such might not use fluid. This is as a result of the development in the automobile industry to ensure safety, comfort and higher fuel economy. This would be a discuss in future articles. Feedback Generic codes P0881: TCM power input signal range/performance Meaning The powertrain control module and transmission control module monitored supplied voltage to the ATM solenoid valve. This voltage is without specific, then gear is fixed 4th speed. Possible causes  P0882: Transmission control module power input signal low. Meaning When the power supply to the Transmission control module is cut “OFF” for example because the battery is removed, and the self-diagnostics memory function stops, malfunction is detected. Tech notes Sometimes this code is triggered when the battery charge gets too low or is replaced. Cleared the code and drive the vehicle. If the code comes back and there are no other symptoms, you may have to replace the transmission Control module. Possible causes  P0883: TCM power input signal high Meaning The transmission control output circuit is used to supply power to the transmission solenoid/TRS assembly and to the PCM when in normal operating mode. The purpose of the transmission output circuit is to allow the transmission control system to turn off the power to the transmission solenoid/TRS assembly in event that the transmission should need be placed into limp-in mode due to a DTC. After a powertrain control module reset, (ignition switch turned to the run position, or after cranking the engine) the transmission control system verifies that the transmission output circuit is open by checking for voltage on the transmission output circuits before the transmission control system requests the circuit to be powered up. The request is sent by a direct circuit control from the PCM to the TIPM. If voltage is detected on the transmission output circuits before the request is sent, the DTC will set. Possible causes  P0884: TCM power input signal intermittent Meaning The powertrain control module and transmission control module  monitored supplied voltage to the ATM solenoid valve. This voltage is without specific, then gear is fixed 4th speed. Possible causes  P0885: TCM power relay control circuit/open Meaning The transmission control relay is used to supply power to the solenoid pack when the transmission is in normal operating mode. When the relay is off, no power is supplied to the solenoid pack and the transmission is in limp-in mode. The relay output is fed back to the powertrain control module . It is referred to as the transmission control relay output circuit or switched battery. Immediately after a controller reset (ignition key turned to the run position or after cranking engine), the PCM verifies that the relay contacts are open by checking for no voltage at the switched battery terminals. After this is verified, the voltage at the pressure switches is checked. There should be no voltage on the pressure switches at this time. The PCM will then activate the relay. Possible causes  P0886: TCM power relay control circuit low Meaning The transmission control relay is used to supply power to the solenoid pack when the transmission is in normal operating mode. When the relay is off, no power is supplied to the solenoid pack and the transmission is in limp-in mode. The relay output is fed back to the powertrain control module. It is referred to as the transmission control relay output circuit or switched battery. Immediately after a controller reset (ignition key turned to the run position or after cranking engine), the PCM verifies that the relay contacts are open by checking for no voltage at the switched battery terminals. After this is verified, the voltage at the pressure switches is checked. There should be no voltage on the pressure switches at this time. The PCM will then activate the relay. Possible causes  P0887: TCM power relay control circuit high Meaning The transmission control relay is used to supply power to the solenoid pack when the transmission is in normal operating mode. When the relay is off, no power is supplied to the solenoid pack and the transmission is in Limp-in mode. The relay output is fed back to the powertrain control module. It is referred to as the transmission control relay output circuit or switched battery. Immediately after a controller reset (ignition key turned to the run position or after cranking engine), the PCM verifies that the relay contacts are open by checking for no voltage at the switched battery terminals. After this is verified, the voltage at the pressure switches is checked. There should be no voltage on the pressure switches at this time. The PCM will then activate the relay. Possible causes  P0888: Transmission relay always off Meaning The transmission control relay is used to supply power to the solenoid pack when the transmission is in normal operating mode. When the relay is off, no power is supplied to the solenoid pack and the transmission is in Limp-in mode. The relay output is fed back to the powertrain control module. It is referred to as the transmission control relay output circuit or switched battery. After a controller reset (ignition key turned to the run position or after cranking engine), the controller energises the relay. Prior to this the PCM verifies that the contacts are open by checking for no voltage at the switched battery terminals. After the relay is energised, the PCM monitors the terminals to verify that the voltage is greater than three volts. When is the code detected? This code is set when less than three volts are present at the transmission control relay output (switched battery) terminals at the powertrain control module, when the PCM is energising the relay. Possible causes  P0889: TCM power relay sense circuit range/performance Meaning The transmission control relay is used to supply power to the solenoid pack when the transmission is in normal operating mode. When the relay is off, no power is supplied to the solenoid pack and the transmission is in Limp-in mode. The relay output is fed back to the powertrain control m9dule . It is referred to as the transmission control relay output circuit or switched battery. Immediately after a controller reset (ignition key turned to the run position or after cranking engine), the PCM verifies that the relay contacts are open by checking for no voltage at the switched battery terminals. After this is verified, the voltage at the pressure switches is checked. There should be no voltage on the pressure switches at this time. The PCM will then activate the relay. Possible causes  P0890: TCM power relay sense circuit low Meaning The transmission control relay is used to supply power to the solenoid pack when the transmission is in normal operating mode. When the relay is off, no power is supplied to the solenoid pack and the transmission is in Limp-in mode. The relay output is fed back to the powertrain control module. It is referred to as the transmission control relay output circuit or switched battery. Immediately after a controller reset (ignition key turned to the run position or after cranking engine), the PCM verifies that the relay contacts are open by checking for no voltage at the switched battery terminals. After this is verified, the voltage at the pressure switches is checked. There should be no voltage on the pressure switches at this time. The PCM will then activate the relay. Possible causes Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com