Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Federal Executive Council on Wednesday approved the payment of €15.21m (N6,940,081,465.20) offshore and N1.71bn onshore as part of Nigeria’s counterpart funding for the power deal with Siemens AG, signed by the Nigerian and German governments in 2019. The total amount approved is N8,648,081,465.2. The council also ratified the air transport agreement between Nigeria and the United States at its virtual meeting presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The decisions were taken at the virtual meeting of the council presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, told State House correspondents at the end of the meeting that the council ratified the President’s anticipatory approval for the fund. She said the ratification was done based on a memorandum she jointly presented with the Minister of Power, Saleh Mamman. In July 2019, the Federal Government and Siemens signed a Letter of Agreement on the Nigeria Electrification Road Map after the President and the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, met on August 31, 2018, in Abuja. Ahmed said the project would also support the regulator, Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, towards improving metering in the electricity industry in the country. The minister said, “Mr President and his German counterpart met in Abuja on August 31, 2018 and committed to jointly increase the capacity of the Nigeria’s electricity grid from current capacity of 5,000MW to 25,000MW over a three-phased programme.” Siemens in a statement on Wednesday said that the Federal Government had approved the pre-engineering contract to enable the firm to commence work on the expansion of the country’s electricity transmission and distribution network as well as generation capacity. The minister said the facility for the programme would be sourced from the German consortium and it would be guaranteed by the German government through Euler Hermes covering 85 per cent of the project cost, with two to three-year moratorium, and 12-year repayment period. The minister added, “The Federal Government is taking the loan from the German government with the plan to on-lend this particular loan to the distributing networks. “So, it’s a convertible loan facility to the DISCOs and we will be working with the DISCOs to restructure an appropriate loan agreement as soon as we are able to close out on this initial phase of the process. “Council approved and ratified Mr. President’s approval.” The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, told State House correspondents that Nigeria would take advantage of the air agreement with US to strengthen economic, social and cultural ties between the two countries. He said, “The Aviation Minister presented a memo today (Wednesday) on the approval for ratification of the air transport agreement between the Federal Government of Nigeria and the United States of America. “So, today, Mr President signed valid agreement of Air transport service between Nigeria and the US with the attendant benefits for both countries, especially as Nigeria is working towards having its own full national airline.” The Minister of Environment, Mohammed Mahmoud, said the council also approved the nation’s revised National Forest Policy to replace the old one formulated in 2006. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 