Ada Wodu, Calabar Doctors in Cross River State have suspended the withdrawal of services across hospitals in the state. The withdrawal of services was announced last Sunday. The Nigerian Medical Association, Cross River State branch, announced the suspension of the strike in a statement signed by the Chairman, Dr. Agam Ayuk, and Secretary, Dr. Epoke Ezoke. The statement, titled, ‘Communinique issued by the Nigerian Medical Association, Cross River State’, was issued after an emergency general meeting on Tuesday, July 7, 2020, to appraise the issues that led to the withdrawal of medical services by the association. READ ALSO: Ibadan: Oyo confirms suspected serial killers’ arrest “We are most grateful to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha and the Honourable Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Enahire, for the timely 17-member delegation from the Presidential Task Force (PTF) and Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) led by the Executive Director/CEO National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Faisal Shuaib that arrived Calabar on 6th July 2020, to set up a COVID-19 response strategy in Cross River State that will align with the national response. “We deeply appreciate the Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu for the activation of two (2) COVID-19 Test Centres at the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital and Lawrence Henshaw Memorial Hospital, Calabar. “We also appreciate the NMA President, Prof. I.A.O. Ujah, the National Officers’ Committee and members of NMA for their support to NMA Cross River State,” the statement read in part. The association said it welcomes the official recognition of the five COVID-19 confirmed cases from the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital by the NCDC which had resolved the lingering uncertainties negatively impacting public health and safety and had provided clarity to the COVID-19 status of Cross River State and the required response strategy. It said, “We enjoin the Cross River State Government to keep to the resolutions of the meeting held between PTF/FMOH COVID-19 delegation, Nigerian Medical Association – Cross River State branch and the Cross River State Ministry of Health signed on July 7, 2020. “The association hereby suspends the total and indefinite withdrawal of medical services in all public and private hospitals in Cross River State with effect from today, 7th July 2020. “We appeal to citizens of Cross River State to follow the NCDC guidelines on infection prevention and control while reinforcing our commitment to working with the Federal and State governments to contain the spread of COVID-19.”