Oladimeji Ramon Some protesters on Monday stormed the premises of the Federal High Court on Oyinkan Abayomi Drive in Ikoyi, Lagos, to complaint about what they termed judicial bias in the handling of a lawsuit filed by Western Lotto Limited, belonging to Senator Buruji Kashamu. In the case, being handled by Justice C.J. Aneke, Western Lotto Limited sued 23 rival lottery firms over alleged infringement on its licence on “Ghana games.” One of the defendants is Premier Lotto Limited, popularly known as Baba Ijebu Gaming Limited, belonging to Chief Keshington Adebutu. In December 2019, following an application by Western Lotto legal team, Justice Aneke had made an antom piller order, authorising Western Lotto to enter into and search the offices of the defendants for evidence of the alleged infringement on its licence on “Ghana games.” The judge also dismissed the defendants’ preliminary objection, challenging the court’s jurisdiction and seeking to set aside the antom piller order. On Monday, the protesters displayed placards with various inscriptions such as ‘Aneke, do the right thing,’ ‘Justice is not for sale,’ and ‘We say no to Kashamu’s judicial, among others. But the Managing Director of Western Lotto Limited, Dr Olumide Adedeji, blamed the protest on “Adebutu and Golden Chance Lotto’s Idowu Obasa.” In a statement, titled, ‘Protest at the Federal High Court: Our Response,’ Adedeji said, “The indubitable fact is that since their acts of economic sabotage, which runs into N100bn, have been exposed through Western Lotto’s patriotic efforts, they have resorted to all manner of cheap blackmail and mudslinging. “The stage-managed protest is one of such activities. They seem to have lost faith in the capacity of their legal teams to save them; hence the resort to extrajudicial tactics. They are doing all these with a view to stalling the out-of-court settlement between Western Lotto and the National Lottery Regulatory Commission so that they can continue to illegally sell the Ghana games and short-changing of the Federal Government.” Meanwhile, hearing in the matter is scheduled for Tuesday. The first and second defendants in the suit are the National Lottery Regulation Commission; and the Registrar of Trademarks, respectively. Premier Lotto Limited is the first of the 23 lottery firms also joined as defendants. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com