Nike Popoola Ecobank Nigeria has said it is committed to the agricultural sector development and is supporting over 70,000 farmers with special loans to increase their capacity and yields during this planting season. The bank described the move as one of its initiatives to promote entrepreneurship in the sector and support the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Anchor Borrowers programmes for the 2020 wet season with the Maize Growers, Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria. A statement from the bank on Wednesday quoted the Head, Agribusiness, Ecobank Nigeria, Mojisola Oguntoyinbo, as saying that the initiative spread across the 36 states of the federation. She said it aimed to support the government to create an ecosystem that would give smallholder farmers access to funding and the required support to increase food production in the country. According to her, the scheme was designed to connect smallholder farmers with processors and off-takers within the agriculture value chain. She said, “We are creating opportunities in the agric sector that will help many smallholder farmers expand their business and become worthy employers of labour by adopting modern farming techniques for the betterment of our economy. “We are in strategic partnership with NIRSAL (Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending) and some other developmental institutions to achieve our purpose. “We are also partnering the Central Bank of Nigeria in all its intervention schemes and programmes aimed at developing the sector. Our relationships are generating positive activities across the entire agric value chain.” Ecobank said it had been actively leveraging entrepreneurship as a strategy to tackle poverty and growing unemployment, through the creation of relevant platforms. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  