Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Federal Government has asked civil servants based in Abuja to go for COVID-19 testing. The directive was contained in a circular by the Permanent Secretary, Service Welfare Office in the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation, Dr Evelyn Ngige. Ngige signed the circular titled, “Conduct of COVID-19 testing for civil servants” on behalf of the HOSF, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan. The circular dated July 17, 2020, was addressed to all federal permanent secretaries. It read, “I am directed to inform you that the Federal Government has provided facilities for the conduct of COVID-19 tests for civil servants at the ThisDay Dome, Mohammed Kur Avenue, by Nanet Suites, Central Business District, Abuja (from 10am to 4pm daily) as part of efforts to curtail the spread of the disease. “Accordingly, you are required to notify all staff of the testing facility to enable members of staff who experience COVID-19 related symptoms and those wishing to get tested in your MDAs to take advantage of this opportunity. “Ngige also called the attention of civil servants to the updated guidelines on the control of the virus in offices which she said could be accessed on the website of the Office in the Office of the Head of Service or the Federation. The PUNCH had earlier reported that in the updated guidelines, the government asked all the MDAs to create isolation centres in their offices for those who fall sick during working hours. It also asked the MDAs to “discourage workers from sharing work tools, equipment, and items like computers, phones etc. ”It further recommended frequent cleaning and disinfection of work surfaces, asking that close attention should be paid to high-contact objects like door handles, handrails, elevator buttons, keyboards, tools, toilets, and sinks among others. According to the document, those feeling sick or have sick family members (respiratory-related) should not come to work. Such workers were advised to contact their supervisors with a view to obtaining necessary approvals in line with the Public Service Rule as well as contact the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control.