Nike Popoola The natural resources development fund account rose by N6.4bn to N131.59bn on July 7, 2020 from N125.19bn on May 21, 2020, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, has said. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Laolu Akande, disclosed this in a statement, titled, ‘Governors to be part of national economic sustainability plan implementation,’ on Thursday. Ahmed also disclosed to the council that the stabilisation account rose from N39.33bn to 40.31bn, while the Excess Crude Account balance did not record any significant change from its former figure of $72.4m. Akande said some state governors might soon join the membership of the Economic Sustainability Committee as the implementation of the sustainability plan proceeded. He said this was disclosed by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, while presiding over a virtual meeting of the National Economic Council on Thursday at the Presidential Villa. He recalled that while receiving the report of the Economic Sustainability Committee, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had described it as a national plan that had gone through wide consultations. “The endorsement of the governors at today’s NEC follows the President’s description of the sustainability plan,” he said. He said the governors had made a presentation at the NEC on how states could collaborate effectively with the Federal Government on the implementation of the recently approved N2.3tn stimulus programme. Akande said the governors welcomed the plan and committed to working with the Federal Government. According to the Vice President, he added, possibly two state governors could join the committee for the implementation phase of the plan. He said state governments would also be actively involved in the process of executing projects in the plan, especially projects based in the domains of respective states, in collaboration with other stakeholders and partners. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com