What are your educational qualifications? For my elementary education, I attended Aiyetoro Primary School, Surulere, Lagos State. I proceeded to Osun State for my junior secondary education at Islamic College, Osogbo, before going for senior secondary at Al’kawthar Model College, Ogun State. I went on to study Political Science at the Ahmadu Bello University, Kaduna State. What informed your decision to go into this line of business? The creativity and passion I have for henna drawing brought me into it. How much capital did you start with? I started with N20, 000. I order henna and other materials from Kaduna and Kano state. Do you have any corporate work experience? No, I do not have any. Do you enjoy being an entrepreneur or would you have preferred a white collar job? I prefer being an entrepreneur to doing a white collar job. How do you tackle the risks associated with your business? I test any new henna product on my skin to be sure it’s safe for my clients before applying it on them. This has helped me greatly in avoiding complains. Does your business earn you a comfortable lifestyle? Yes, it does. How long have you been in business? I have been in business for about two years. How do you get customers? I use my skin as a form of advertisement. Social media has also been of great help because I post my works on Instagram and get customers from there. Due to financial constraints, I only place advertisements on WhatsApp and Instagram. Have you ever thought of quitting? Yes, there was actually a time I thought of quitting. I had inadvertently bought bad henna powder and it made me lose clients. However, I was able to overcome the challenge by God’s grace. What other skills do you possess? Sewing and hairstyling are other skills I possess. Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years? I see myself being a celebrated henna artist in Nigeria. I aim to attend one of the global henna conferences which are usually held annually in India, Sweden, New York and other places. I hope to host such a conference in Nigeria too sometime in the future. Also, I dream to feature my henna with TY Bello because I love her style of photography. Considering that many parents want their children to get white collar jobs, do you think there is any hope for entrepreneurship? I am over 18 years old and I believe I have the right to choose whatever pleases me. My parents understand that principle too and they are at peace with my decision to be an entrepreneur. Who are your target customers? My target customers include models, artists, musicians and other females. How do you deal with difficult customers? I handle difficult customers with patience and smiles. Even when they insult me, I don’t get offended because I believe it is their money talking, not them. What is the most influential factor in your business’ success? Getting to work with customers that have good skin. The henna looks better on them and I get referrals. What advice do you have for entrepreneurs just starting out? My advice to anyone intending to start business is to stay firm in their faith in God, be creative and open to learn new things. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    