What are your thoughts on the current state of the Nigerian oil and gas industry? The state of the Nigerian oil and gas industry is a broad topic. We can narrow it down to the current crisis and challenges facing the industry. To start, the current state of the Nigerian oil and gas industry has been characterised by quite a lot of upheavals, challenges and troubles but the industry continues to weather the storms and handle the situation quite well and still remains the major source of foreign exchange earnings to the Federal Government of Nigeria. The challenges the industry is experiencing this year started with the collapse of the global demand for crude oil and its derivative products following the response of governments around the world to the global pandemic of COVID-19. Governments instituted lockdowns and overnight, no one was buying our products. As if that was not tough enough, Saudi Arabia and Russia entered a major price war following the collapse of the OPEC+ talks. Crude prices collapsed as a result, to the extent that futures prices for West Texas Intermediate fell to negative territory for the first time. Bonny Light fell to about $10 per barrel from around $57 per barrel at the beginning of the year. Prices have begun to recover but we still have a mile to go before we are back to pre-crisis levels. Therefore, the current state of the Nigerian oil and gas industry is best described as still in recovery from the effects of the present global crisis. How would you describe the impact of the collapse in global crude prices on the Nigerian oil and gas industry? The impact of this year’s collapse in global crude oil prices on the Nigerian oil and gas industry is deep, multi-faceted and quite extensive. First, the revenue to the Federal Government from the oil and gas industry took a severe hit following the price collapse. The government had to revise the 2020 budget and the reference price for crude as a result. Second, the operators and players in the industry had to struggle with the reality of reduced receipt from the crude oil they produced. In some instances, production costs became higher than the realisable crude oil price such that it no longer made economic sense to continue to produce from those facilities. Consequently, some facilities were shut down or production were cut deeply to contain cost. Budgets were cut. The overall impact therefore severely constrained the ability of operators in the industry to meet ongoing obligations such as royalty payments, cash calls, taxes, operating expenditures, community development and other Corporate Social Responsibility project commitments, capital expenditures and even staff salaries. Third, the contractors providing goods and services to the industry were impacted, with cancellation of contracts, purchase orders and service requests. Contract rates were renegotiated downwards, consultants and contract personnel were laid off, rigs were put off-hire, and marine vessels were reduced or stopped, among others. I can go on but suffice it to say that the impact of this year’s collapse in crude oil prices on the Nigerian oil and gas industry is still ongoing and unravelling. The full extent of the impact can only be assessed when we are out of the crisis. Which aspects of the industry do you think have been hardest hit by the current downturn? Several aspects of the industry have been very hard hit by the current downturn that it may be difficult to objectively assess who or what aspect has been hardest hit. But I can give you a bit of a flavour. Let us take for instance the issue of loan obligations. Our industry is very capital intensive, and we rely on loans from the banks to finance our business. Most of these loans are dollar-denominated. With the collapse in crude oil prices, some operators are no longer able to meet their loan obligations. Such loans will need to be refinanced or restructured. Meanwhile, the operations are ongoing, and costs are being racked up and other obligations, especially to the government and communities, will need to be met. As you can imagine, in these instances, companies in the oil and gas industry teeter on the edge. This is just one aspect and there are several that are equally hard hit. How has the sharp drop in oil prices and demand affected indigenous producers like ND Western? Indigenous producers like ND Western generally coalesce under the Independent Petroleum Producers Group. The IPPG is an association of Nigerian indigenous upstream exploration and production companies. As a group, we currently produce over 200,000 barrels of oil and over 900 million cubic of gas per day with the aspiration to significantly increase these volumes. The sharp drop in oil prices and demand may slow down the speed with which indigenous producers pursue the aspiration to ramp up production to about 50 per cent of Nigeria’s daily oil and gas production. In 2011, ND Western served as a special purpose vehicle for the acquisition of the stakes being divested by oil majors in Oil Mining Lease 34. How has the company fared so far? Indeed, ND Western is a special purpose vehicle that was established to acquire the 45 per cent divested interests of Shell, Total and Agip in OML 34. ND Western is comprised of three very successful Nigerian indigenous companies, with combined operating experiences of over 35 years, and a complementary foreign investment holding company. They are Niger Delta Petroleum Resources Limited, a publicly-owned independent integrated marginal field operator, currently producing, processing and refining oil and gas from its Ogbele flagship field – from where it has to date delivered more than 19 million barrels and 80 billion standard cubic feet of gas into the Bonny Oil Terminal and the Nigeria LNG Limited respectively; Waltersmith Exploration and Production Company Limited that sustains steady oil production at its Ibigwe field, from where it has produced over eight million barrels to date; First Exploration & Petroleum Development Company Ltd, a start-up E&P company that has 40 per cent working interests in OMLs 83 and 85, with additional interests in other assets; and Petrolin Trading Limited, a company domiciled in Switzerland. Since 2012, together with its joint venture partner, the Nigeria Petroleum Development Company, that holds the 55 per cent equity of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation in OML 34, ND Western has recorded many milestones. These include the successful renewal of our asset lease for another 20 years in February 2019; successful drilling and completion of eight wells; successful commissioning of 150 million scf/d Utorogu NAG2 plant; and improved oil production to 20,000 barrels of oil per day today from 13,000 bopd in 2014. Finally, the most exciting is the increase in gas production to 380 million scf/d from around 300 million scf/d in 2014. This makes ND Western the largest indigenous gas producer in Nigeria behind only the IOCs. Your company is a supplier of gas for the generation of electricity in the country. What has your experience being so far in the power sector, especially with respect to payment for gas supply? ND Western’s experience, as a major gas producer and supplier to the electric power producers, has been very tough, to put it mildly. First, it must be said that it is very expensive to produce gas. It costs on the average anywhere between $15-20m to drill a gas well. Then you have to process the gas and condition it for transport to downstream users. This is capital investment that must be paid for upfront and then takes years to recoup. It appears that this fact is lost in the conversation about gas price and payment for produced gas. In any given year, ND Western is paid for only about 35 per cent of the gas we produce, especially to the power companies. We are owed for gas we produced for as far back as 2015. We hope this can be addressed by the right policy thrust to enable free capital flow across the value chain. What is ND Western doing to mitigate the impact of low oil prices on its operations? ND Western, as a company, has the good fortune of having a healthy reserve of oil at about 300 million barrels of proven reserves and three trillion cubic feet of gas reserves. We have the surface facilities producing oil through the Trans Forcados Pipeline to Forcados terminal. We are also a strategic national asset producing gas to the nation’s main industrial corridor through the Escravos to Lagos pipeline system. To mitigate the impact of the low oil prices, we have launched a short-term strategy to pivot to gas production. As a result of this shift in focus, ND Western’s gas production has grown from 270 million scf/d in March 2020 to 380 million scf/d today. That is over 100 million scf/d in less than six months. The current downturn in the industry poses a threat to the survival of some indigenous firms. What do you think the government should do to support them? I am glad you asked that question. Understandably, the industry that has taken the most hit from the current downturn is the oil and gas industry, and the indigenous companies are the hardest hit. Therefore, a lot of encouragement and intervention are needed from the government to help the indigenous companies survive. The issue of loan obligations I mentioned earlier is pertinent. The government through the Central Bank of Nigeria can intervene with the right policy to incentivise the banks to restructure these loans to give reprieve to indigenous oil companies. The indigenous companies, through the IPPG, have made presentations for specific intervention from the government with certain provisions in the Nigerian Content Bill, Emergency Economic Stimulus Bill and the Petroleum Industry Bill, among others. The government can support the indigenous companies by taking IPPG’s views on board. What are ND Western’s expansion plans? Is the company planning to acquire more assets or build a refinery? ND Western has a very ambitious growth plan to take our gas production to above 510 million scf/d in the next few years. We will grow our oil production to above 60,000 bopd in our medium-term plan. Our plan is to build robust midstream and downstream businesses and certainly, we will acquire more assets as the opportunity become available. We also want to leverage our non-oil and gas assets to their maximum economic potential. ND Western is definitely on the rise, and I am glad to be a part of that exciting story. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 