The Group Chief Executive Officer, United Capital, Peter Ashade, and other financial experts have highlighted the need for local solutions to address the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 on African economies. They said the pandemic had further exposed the vulnerabilities of the continent. In a statement from the company on Thursday, the experts spoke during the maiden edition of United Capital’s e-conference with the theme, ‘Fostering innovative cross-border financing solutions in Africa.’ Ashade observed that the continent had continued to grapple with infrastructure development challenges compounded by capital flight to safer havens, among others. “This begs for innovative home-grown financing solutions to help strengthen Africa’s economic resilience and, perhaps, propel the continent through a new phase of growth,” he said. The Chief Executive Officer, Ghana Investment Promotion Center, Yofi Grant, said, “Lack of capital goes with poor institutional growth and because most of our companies start from a micro space. “So, it becomes difficult to make big leaps; hence, we need great thinkers who are willing to look inwards.” Also speaking, the CEO, United Bank for Africa Benin Republic, Gbenga Makinde, said there was a need to look inwards to solve local problems and have currencies that could be used to finance the challenges on the continent. He said, “We need to adopt regional trade as a strategy to penetrate the African market; and if we have pan-African banks following this path, we will definitely proffer solutions within Africa. “Regional trade and financing is what has become the strategy helping us to penetrate the African market.” A director at the African Development Bank, Wale Shonibare, said, “We have to improve cross-border trade and also build regional interconnections; we also need to embrace one currency. “Under our desert-to-power initiative, we are creating the world’s largest solar zone to provide power to 250 million people. “We should put more effort to develop our local capital market and also invest in education.” The Chief Executive Officer, Ghana Investment Promotion Center, Yofi Grant, said having different currencies within Africa was a barrier and one of the critical things to look at. “He said, I should be able to trade in Nigeria with one currency because it is just one hour away. We should own our own data; the currency of the world is data. For any form of development to take place, there must be political stability. “We must take our minds away from cheap capital or cheap funding that takes us off the objective of developing ourselves.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  