Daud Olatunji and Bola Bamigbola On Ogun State High Court sitting in Isabo, Abeokuta, has sentenced a 35-year-old man, Adekunle Olalere, to life imprisonment for defiling a two-year-old girl. Olalere was, on Tuesday, convicted of one count of having sexual intercourse with the victim. The convict, who resides at No. 18 Bashorun Street, off Unity Road, Olowotedo, Mowe, had pleaded not guilty to the charge. Delivering his judgment, Justice Abiodun Akinyemi said evidence presented before the court by the prosecution was tenable and found the convict guilty as charged. “Based on the evidence, I find and hold that the convict had sexual intercourse with the child and is guilty as charged,” Akinyemi said. The judge sentenced Olalere to life imprisonment. The Assistant Chief State Counsel, Mrs Oluyemisi Aruleba, had told the court during trial that the convict committed the offence on March 22, 2017, at No. 18 Bashorun Street, off Unity Road, Olowotedo area of Mowe. According to her, the convict forcefully had sexual intercourse with the two-year-old girl. Aruleba said the victim’s mother was living with the convict and helping his wife to sell foodstuffs and other items. The prosecutor said, “The victim’s mother met her two-year-old daughter crying and noticed that she was not walking properly; she checked her daughter’s private parts and noticed that they were swollen. “She took the child to the hospital, where it was confirmed that there was presence of sperm cells in her private parts and also revealed that the child had been sexually abused by the convict.” The prosecution counsel said the offence contravened Section 32 of the Child Right Law of Ogun State, 2006. Meanwhile, a Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, has sentenced one Timileyin Awojodu to six months’ imprisonment for fraudulently obtaining the sum of $2,500 from an American. Justice Peter Lifu had on Monday, July 13, 2020, convicted Awojodu and adjourned till Tuesday for sentencing after the convict pleaded guilty and opted for plea bargain. The prosecutor from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, AbduRasheed Sulaeman, had during trial told the court that the 30-year-old Awojodu posed as a lady with the name, Troy Stone, and defrauded the American. Sulaeman tendered as exhibits the money recovered from the defendant, one iPhone 7, his confessional statement as well as nude pictures he sent through his mail to the victim. The defence counsel, Mr Dotun Akinsanmi, pleaded for leniency, saying his client had spent 73 days in the custody of the EFCC. Delivering the judgment, Justice Lifu found Awojodu guilty and sentenced him to six months’ imprisonment with hard labour. Justice Lifu said the jail term should run from October 2019, when the defendant was first arrested, adding that the money recovered from him should be returned to his victim in the United States of America. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 