Eze Onyekpere The current bloodletting in many parts of Nigeria where gunmen and insurgents kill unchallenged and are not subsequently apprehended, tried and punished raises serious questions of governance and the raison d’etre of instituting government. Legal, constitutional and social theories assert that the security of lives and property is the primary purpose of government. Government therefore exists for this primary responsibility. The issue of security of lives and property also reflects in legal theory about the definition of law. Whether it is the popular Austinian model of law as the command of the sovereign backed by sanctions or the utilitarian and social models of resolving the various conflicting interests in society, it is still about entrusting power and responsibilities to government to act on behalf of every member of society. The government in every clime including Nigeria is equipped with definite powers which include the power and monopoly of organised violence through its different security forces. Governments preside over states, not in the sense of Nigerian states, but in the sense of nations and countries. Thus, the Nigerian State is expected to have a government in firm control of its territory, with a monopoly of the instruments of the legitimate use of force and coercion. This is imperative for a guarantee of the territorial integrity of the state and the lives and property of residents. It is imperative to submit that the security of life is even more fundamental to organised society than security of property because only the living can own property. It has always been my position that the right to life is the most fundamental of the fundamental rights. It is the fulcrum upon which other rights revolve. Take the right to life away and there is no person left to claim any right. The Nigerian Constitution guarantees the right to life and this guarantee is also found in virtually all the human rights instruments ratified and applicable in Nigeria including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the domesticated African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights, etc. Human rights jurisprudence places the state obligation on the right to life in a very expansive manner. It is not just about the state not arbitrarily taking life. The state is also obligated to prevent, investigate and punish any human rights violation carried out in its territory not only by the acts of public officers but also directly resulting from acts not directly imputable to officers of the state. This has been aptly captured in the adapted words of experts: “…to take reasonable steps to prevent violations of the right to life and to use the means at its disposal to carry out investigations of violations committed within its jurisdiction, to identify those responsible, to impose the appropriate punishment and to ensure the victims adequate compensation.” The state should also position itself to give guarantees of non-repetition to citizens, especially those who have been affected by the murder. This is the theoretical and practical background to the killings going on in different parts of Nigeria – from southern Kaduna to the bandits-dominated Katsina and the Boko Haram-infested North-East of Nigeria. The Buhari regime came to power with a firm promise to address the insurgency in the North-East. Instead of the crisis abating, it has now expanded to other parts of Nigeria as more killings have become the order of the day. What is the response of government? Endless press releases, assurances and re-assurances and launching of one operation after another and all these go to no issue and fail to stop the next set of more brutal murders. Sometimes, Nigerians are fed with the unthinkable and incredible when government comes out with justifications for killings under the guise of providing explanations. This is the context when Nigerians are told that killings have been done in revenge of earlier ones. The meaning of this is that government knew about the first killing and its perpetrators and did nothing to stop the revenge part of it. To worsen matters, officials placed in charge of security matters by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) – the service chiefs – have been found wanting on several occasions as they have not lived up to the expectations of Nigerians. Some of them have been due for retirement but were retained on the orders of the President. The National Assembly has on two occasions passed a resolution demanding the sack of the service chiefs, but the President ignored the resolutions and refused to act on them. To insult the intelligence of Nigerians, the presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, issued a statement the last time reminding Nigerians that it is the prerogative of the President to appoint the service chiefs. This statement only reaffirms that the President is happy with the performance of the service chiefs, a performance which has led to countless deaths. As everyone knows that in a presidential democracy like the type practised in Nigeria, the buck stops at the President’s table. What Adesina failed to understand is that constitutional prerogatives are not conferred on the President in a vacuum. The prerogative to appoint service chiefs or generally to be president of Nigeria is predicated on the fundamental obligation to secure lives. If the President repeatedly, as in the extant case, fails to secure lives, then the claim of a raw exercise of a prerogative falls flat on its face. It is no longer tenable. It should therefore become a fundamental and sacred duty of all well-meaning Nigerians to join the call by the National Assembly for the sacking of the service chiefs who have presided over these countless deaths. The most unfortunate thing about the right to life is that it is not like other rights where compensation and apologies could restore the victim to his position before the violation. Once the right is violated, it is extinguished and the person cannot be called back to accept compensation and apology. Once violated, it is all over. Finally, Nigerians might have voted Buhari to become President and Commander-in-Chief; if for any reason, he can no longer perform the duties of that office, in terms of having the discerning presence of mind to make informed calls which will save thousands of lives, then he should consider the option of taking a bow and resigning to save the lives of those he swore on oath to protect. Nigerian lives matter and the occupation of a position, either as a service chief or a President should not be worth this quantum of blood.