Tony Okafor and Raphael Ede The Ohanaeze Ndigbo, led by Chief Nnia Nwodo, and the Nnamdi Kanu-led Indigenous People of Biafra have reconciled. A First Republic Aviation Minister, Chief Mbazuluike Amaechi, said he brokered the peace deal between the two groups on Tuesday at his Ukpor country home in the Nnewi South Local Government Area of Anambra State. Addressing journalists, the nonagenarian described the altercation between the two groups as unnecessary. He said both bodies were fighting for the common interest of Ndigbo. Amaechi expressed joy over IPOB’s withdrawal of the stoning threat on Nwodo. He said IPOB at the meeting agreed to work harmoniously with Ohaneze Ndigbo for the interest of the South-East. He said IPOB demanded its de-proscription, which he urged the governors and lawmakers in the region to facilitate. Amaechi said, “I summoned the two bodies of Ohaneze Ndigbo and IPOB to express my displeasure with what I have been reading in the newspapers about them. “The two bodies realised that it is the same battle they are fighting – marginalisation, killings and denials by the Federal Government to develop the South-East and Igbo land in general. They have agreed to work together for the welfare of Ndigbo.” The representative of IPOB, Aloy Ejimakor, a lawyer, said he was at the meeting with the blessings and instructions of his client. He confirmed the withdrawal of IPOB’s threats on the Ohanaeze president, describing it as one spoken in the heat of passion. Ejimakor said, “There’s peace in Igbo land. Anybody coming in to take advantage of some leadership crises in Igbo land is actually making a mistake.” READ ALSO: Overrule education minister on WASSCE, Reps tell Buhari Speaking on behalf of Ohaneze Ndigbo, the Anambra State Chairman of the body, Chief Damian Okeke-Ogene, said, “Those who thought our fences are fallen will know that the fences are stronger than they had thought.” Nwodo had said he was not deterred by the stoning threat of IPOB as he was determined to continue to offer his best in the service of the Igbo nation. He spoke when a group of Igbo women paid him a solidarity visit, adding that he rejected pressure from several quarters to make a categorical statement on IPOB’s threat, and instead choose to remain calm. “This is because Igbo culture forbids a father joining issues with his son. Based on the fact that I am currently the father of the Igbo nation, I reserve my comments against the IPOB leader, hoping he will realise his mistakes,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com