Ifeoluwa Oyerinde Residents of Odewale community in the Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State have lamented the bad state of the major road in the area, the Egbado Road. The residents told PUNCH Metro that the bad state of the road was affecting business activities in the area and making commuting unbearable. When our correspondent visited the community, it was observed that some portions of the road were covered by weeds and flood water, making it inaccessible for vehicles. Residents and business owners in the area accused the state government of abandoning the community. The Assistant Secretary, Odewale Community Development Association, Cheikh Iayass, said the road had been in a bad shape for over 10 years, adding that promises by past governors of the state to fix it were not fulfilled. He said, “The road has gone worse over the years and the situation has affected our community greatly and the rain has not made it any easier. Past governors of the state promised to fix the road but none of them fulfilled their promises. We have schools and businesses in the area that have been badly affected by the state of the road. Parents are withdrawing their children from schools because buses are no longer able to access the road. “Not long ago, some individuals came to the community to buy land to start a business, but the state of the road discouraged them. People are no longer building houses in our community; many businesses have shut down because of the road. Trucks and cars can no longer pass through the community. We have appealed to Governor Dapo Abiodun to help us to fix the road and make it accessible.” A resident of the area, Folashade Balogun, told PUNCH Metro that she had to close her business as a result of low patronage due to the bad condition of the road. “I had to close my shop. All my customers refused to come because their cars were being damaged. The community association tried its best to fix the road but the rain keeps frustrating their efforts. We are tired; we want the government to intervene. We cannot keep living like this, it is not right,” she stated. When PUNCH Metro contacted the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Kunle Somorin, for his reaction, he did not take his calls and messages sent by our correspondent to his mobile telephone were not replied to. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 