Peter Dada, Akure Residents of Ayetoro community in the Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State have called on the state government to rescue the community from being totally washed away by the Atlantic Ocean. The sea incursion was said to have wreaked havoc on the coastal community as many houses and schools had been washed away, thereby creating fear in the residents. The Public Relations Officer of the community, Mr Victor Akinluwa, made the appeal during an assessment visit to the community by officials of the Federal Ministry of Environment and the Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project. Akinluwa said the expectations of the community were reclamation of the land and the building of embarkments, because the town had been shrunk by sea water incursion. “More than three-kilometre landscape of the town has been lost to the sea; people in our community can no longer farm as usual. We need government’s intervention so that our community will not go into extinction,” he stated. The Permanent Secretary, Ondo State Ministry of Environment, Tayo Adeniyi, said the state government, in collaboration with the World Bank, had shown commitment by intervening with the rescue project. He stated, “This is a community that has lost large part of its land to the sea, which include school structures, church buildings and so many property worth millions of naira. “That is why Mr Governor took it upon himself that this community must be salvaged, because if it continues like this for the next five to six years, this community may become extinct.” Similarly, the State Project Coordinator, NEWMP, Marcus Adewodun, noted that it was the state government that enlisted the support of the World Bank to stop the sea incursion. Adewodun explained that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had earlier approved the engagement of a design consultant and that the engineering design had been done within a short period of time, because of the urgency of the work and the concern of the state government to give the people of the area better living condition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com