Olufunke Faluyi Ocimum gratissimum (Efinrin in Yoruba) is in the family of Lamiaceae.  It is native to Africa where it is used (particularly in West Africa) as a culinary herb. It is a herbaceous plant with woody main stems branching into a sub-shrub which can attain a height close to two metres and a large canopy depending on the soil quality in its habitat.  It has a perennial habit; the leaves are ovate to ovate-lanceolate with crenate to serrate margins and hairy lower and upper surfaces. The inflorescence is a cluster of racemes which are transiently terminal until the branch continues growth through lateral branches. The seeds are fertile and they are copious. Most of us grew up using Efinrin as a relief for stomach upset and haemorrhoids but do you know you have probably been plucking your Efinrin at the wrong time? Most of the medicinal properties of Ocimum gratissimum is a function of its essential oil. Hence, the best time to collect this plant is early in the morning when the sun has yet been out. Once the sun is out most of the essential oils, which are volatile, would have escaped into the atmosphere. Ocimum gratissimum is popularly known as scent leaf; it is known as efinrin in Yoruba, nchanwu in Igbo and daidoya in Hausa. The best known species are the strongly aromatic herb, Ocimum basilicum (Thai basil) as well as the medicinal herb Ocimum tenuiflorum also known as Ocimum sanctum (holy basil or tulsi in Hindi). Ocimum gratissimum (African basil/Efinrin) is native to Africa. The leaves can be boiled and the water taken as tea; they can be blended and cooked but they are mostly used as spice. Someone spoke with me about the extraction of Efinrin oil that he did sometimes ago. He told me the oil was extracted through steam distillation. I saw the scar from the wound he sustained from an accidental spillage of the oil on his hand. I asked why the oil is so harsh and he told me that it is the characteristic of the oil–it is concentrated and that is why it must not be applied directly on the skin; a carrier oil like coconut or olive oil must be added so that it does not burn the skin. Thoughts that we have so much in nature that we have not even explored kept flashing through my mind after the valuable education I received on efinrin oil. The whole plant and the essential oil have many applications in traditional medicine especially in Africa and India. It is commonly used in folk medicine to treat different diseases like upper respiratory tract infections, diarrhoea, headache, ophthalmic, skin diseases, pneumonia, cough, fever and conjunctivitis. Preparations from the whole plant are used as stomachic and in treating sunstroke, headache and influenza. The seeds have laxative properties and are prescribed for gonorrhoea. The essential oil which has anti-inflammatory properties is an insect repellent; it is applied against fever, inflammations of the throat, ears or eyes, stomach pain, diarrhoea and skin diseases. It is being tested as an antibiotic. The plant is also cultivated as a hedge plant. The phytochemical screening of the different forms of the fresh scent leaf (Ocimum gratissimum) revealed the presence of alkaloids, phenols, terpenoids, glycosides, flavonoids, steroids, saponins, and tannins. The saponins present in the scent leaf have been reported to have good antibacterial, anti-inflammatory and immune-boosting properties. Ocimum gratissimum contains bioactive molecules including thymol, eugenol, methyl chavicol, linalool, limonene, β-pinene, and α-terpineol which fight against acne. A research reported that the Ocimum oil (2 per cent) in cetomacrogol blend base was more efficient against acne compared to benzoyl peroxide 10 per cent lotion (an organic compound used for curing acne). This is good news for people who have acne. In a study titled ‘Ocimum gratissimum ameliorates (ameliorate means to make something bad or unsatisfactory better) Gentamicin-induced kidney injury but decreases creatinine clearance following sub-chronic administration in rats’ by Dare J. Ogundipe et al. in the Journal of Evidence-based Intergrative Medicine, it was concluded that the aqueous extract of Ocimum gratissimum ameliorated gentamicin-induced kidney injury in rats. The ameliorative effects of Ocimum gratissimum is evident by a remarkable restoration of antioxidant enzymes, total protein and urea concentration resulting from an improved renal function. People with kidney diseases may want to include Efinrin in their diet based on the findings of this research. Efinrin has anti-bacterial properties. In a study titled ‘Antibacterial and antifungal activity of Ocimum gratissimum’ by Sandeep Pandey of Centre for Botany, School of Environmental Biology, India, the literature survey reveals that the plant oil exhibit strong potentiality against gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria. In another study titled ‘Gastro-protective properties of the Leaf Extracts of Ocimum gratissimum L. against experimental ulcers in Rat’ in the International Journal of Pharmacology by P.A. Akah, the conclusion is that the methanol leaf extract of  O. gratissimum protected rats against ulcers induced by indomethacin, ethanol and hypothermic stress. The result of this study could explain the successes claimed in the use of this plant in traditional practices for peptic ulcer. More of its benefits This is the pattern that sustains the genetic resources of plants that are used culturally.  We have a responsibility to take advantage of the abundance of our native plant species to deepen our knowledge about their ethnobotanical, medicinal and cultural uses. In spite of the invasion of our ecosystems by exotic species of Ocimum, Ocimum gratissimum is the major species used by native peoples as medicine. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 