Bournemouth will travel to Everton on Sunday afternoon knowing that they need to win to stand any chance of avoiding relegation from the Premier League. The Cherries are currently 19th in the table, three points behind 17th-placed Aston Villa, but they will also need 18th-placed Watford to drop points on the final weekend in order to escape the bottom three. Everton have finished seventh, eighth and eighth in their last three Premier League campaigns, but the Toffees are currently down in 11th and cannot finish any higher, with 10th-placed Arsenal four points ahead. Thirteen wins, 10 draws and 14 defeats – that is how the Merseyside outfit have performed in their 37 Premier League games this term, while they have only been victorious in one of their last five in England’s top flight. The Toffees will enter this match off the back of an impressive win at Sheffield United, but they have been held by Southampton and Aston Villa in their last two league matches at Goodison Park. There is no question that the team have shown signs of improvement under Carlo Ancelotti, but it would be fair to say that there is still a lot of work for the Italian to do if he is to make the club top-six challengers. READ ALSO: Student arrested for opening Jonathan parody account denied access to lawyers The Cherries are three points off 18th-placed Watford and three points off 17th-placed Villa, meaning that they will need to beat Everton in this match and hope that Villa lose at West Ham United and Watford lose at Arsenal. All three teams have a similar goal difference, meaning that a victory for Bournemouth and defeats for Villa and Watford would more than likely keep the Cherries in the top flight, which would be some escape. Eddie Howe’s side will enter this match off the back of successive defeats to Manchester City and Southampton, but they did impressively beat Leicester City on July 12 and are certainly capable of picking up a big result. Bournemouth will be looking to do the double over Everton, having run out 3-1 winners in the reverse match earlier this season, but they have never won a Premier League match at Goodison Park.