Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi Operatives of the Bauchi State Police Command have arrested a man for having anal sex with three minors between five and eight years old in Bauchi. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Ahmed Wakili, stated this in a statement on Friday. He said the suspect was arrested on June 18 following a report by one Abdulkarim Jibrin, that he (the suspect) had been having anal sex with his five-year-old son. He added that the suspect was promptly arrested and had confessed to the crime. Wakili said it was during investigation that the suspect disclosed he also sodomised two other children in the same area. He said, “On June 18, 2020 about 7pm, one Abdulkarim Jibrin of Zango area, Bauchi, reported at Dutsen Tanshi Police Division that one Nasiru Ibrahim of the same address, lured his son into his room on different occasions and forcefully had anal sex with him without his consent. “However, the suspect was arrested and he confessed to the crime. Besides, he also confessed to have engaged in the same affairs with two children in the same address.” The PPRO said the following day, one Mohammed Yahaya reported to the police in the Dambam Divisional Police Headquarters that his 10-year-old daughter was defiled by a 17-year-old boy, identified only as Adamu. He said the suspect lured the girl into the bush when she went to fetch firewood. Similarly, the police spokesman said on June 21, 2020 around 12pm, one Danjuma Abdullahi of Tilden Fulani, Toro Local Government Area of the state, reported at the station that his wife observed some abnormality in their daughter. “And upon enquiry, she narrated to her mother that one man took her into an uncompleted building at the same address and had carnal knowledge of her. Medical examination revealed that the said Amina was defiled. “On June 21, 2020, the victim saw one Yushe’u Musa of Tilden Fulani and identified him as the person who raped her. The suspect was arrested and investigation is still ongoing,” he stated. Furthermore, Wakili said one Ibrahim Suleiman reported at the Dutsen Tanshi Police Station that one Aishatu Ibrahim handed over her 20-year-old son to a hunter’s group for interrogation because he allegedly stole her two wrappers and N10,000. He added, “Subsequently, the said Adamu Babayo, and three others, Sani Babayo, Ibrahim Abubakar and Haruna Baba, beat him and this led to his death as confirmed by a medical doctor.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com