Although the 2023 presidential election is about three years away, political pundits argue that recent events in the Nigerian political space points to the fact that for politicians, the race started as soon as the 2019 general elections ended. After several attempts by opposition political parties to go it alone in the struggle to oust the then ruling People’s Democratic Party, which controlled power at the centre from 1999 till 2014, opposition politicians came together to form the All Progressives Congress. The Secretary General of Project Nigeria, Olawale Okuniyi, however, said, “Sadly, after winning political power at the centre in 2015, the APC has proved that it is a different side of the same PDP coin. Ask yourself, has corruption, insecurity and our economic woes disappeared just like the PDP? Our politicians are now fighting to control the structures of our existing political parties.” The battle to control the levers of the dominant political parties’ structure is already causing ripples within the ruling APC and the main opposition PDP. Some analysts argue that the tussle between power blocs within the APC for a better deal in 2023 led to the upheaval which consumed the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee. The sacked APC NWC had a preponderance of loyalists of the presumed frontrunner for the 2023 APC Presidential ticket, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. Speculations were rife that the dissolution of the NWC was aimed at decimating the growing influence of the APC National Leader ahead of the 2023 race. In response to such speculations, the Director-General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Dr Salihu Lukeman, in an interview with Saturday PUNCH, said, “I think it’s really quite unfortunate because many of us hold Asiwaju Bola  Tinubu in very high esteem. “In terms of succession for 2023, he certainly is ahead of everybody. But the main issue is basically, that I think, we should avoid a situation where we set up our leaders in a way that brings them into some form of conflict with public sentiments. Many of us were not happy with what was going on in the party. “On whoever is going to succeed Buhari, we must not prevent contests. Supporters of anybody in our party should not present a situation where leadership becomes a divine right of one person; I think that is what this crisis has shown.” Speaking in a similar vein, a senior lecturer in the Department of Political Science, University of Jos, Joseph Anuga, expressed disappointment that the brand of politics on display in Nigeria was one that puts a lot of focus on the contests to get elected into public office. He said, “With what we are seeing today, it is a case of the more things change, the more they remain the same.” Barely three weeks ago, a group of politicians, academics and activists also announced the birth of a political movement – Nigeria Consultative Forum. Prominent Nigerians such as Prof Pat Utomi, and former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ghali Na’abba, were named as interim leaders. A communiqué signed by some of the conveners of the forum, Professors Jibo Ibrahim and Anthony Kila, said the group would engage in consultations to expose everything that was wrong with Nigeria’s current governance system and its political architecture, while providing viable and workable alternatives and simplifying a new ideological mission and agenda for the country. The communiqué, issued after a virtual meeting, read in part, “That the emerging mass movement shall constantly consult with credible fraternal political elders for their solidarity, while consistently slating policy issues for debate and engagements at the grassroots in developing the political consciousness and culture of the people on the street for them to realise and understand how to collectively change the demoralising and demobilising narrative and situation in Nigeria.” Speaking on the need for such a forum at this point in time, Okuniyi said, “We will always need initiatives because as human beings, we must make progress, as things stand today, we don’t have political parties now.” Power shift or power rotation as some prefer to refer to it, was introduced into our political lexicon around 1998. It was a deal brokered by major political actors to deliberately micro-manage the system to cede power to the South-West who were genuinely aggrieved by the unjust cancellation of the results of the June 12, 1993 presidential election. Most analysts rate that election as perhaps the most credible in recent memory. Both local and foreign observers believed that the election was won by the late Chief MKO Abiola but the then military government headed by General Ibrahim Babangida annulled it. President Olusegun Obasanjo of the PDP became the President in 1999 and ruled till 2007 after a failed controversial attempt to amend the constitution to extend his term in office. President Umaru Yar’Adua assumed power after winning the 2007 presidential election which he acknowledged fell below acceptable standards. The decision by his successor, Goodluck Jonathan, to contest the 2015 election in breach of the unwritten power shift arrangement, which was essentially a gentle man’s agreement among power brokers in the then ruling PDP, led to a rebellion which empowered the APC to take power in 2015. As the tenure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), comes to an end in 2023, fresh agitations for power shift have begun to gain grounds. One of the sons of former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, Adamu, recently caused a stir when he declared that, “Personally, I don’t see anything wrong with my father contesting for the presidency. In 2023, my father will be aspiring to the number one office in the land because he has been an astute, strategic, master politician for almost four decades.” Although, he expressed a personal opinion, other stakeholders have expressed misgivings on what they consider a the reluctance of the ruling elite to give other Nigerians especially those from the East an opportunity to occupy the highest office in the land more than 40 years after the end of the Nigeria/ Biafra civil war. A chieftain of the PDP, Chief Olabode George, had in an interview, said, “If the North has spent eight years, automatically it (the presidency) should come down to the South. That will be fair to everybody.” He was reacting to a statement credited to the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, to the effect that following the unwritten consensus that power should rotate between the North and the South, power should move down South in 2023 except if there were “extenuating circumstances.” On his part, the Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu, who has been at the forefront of agitations for power to be zoned to the South-East said the call by Ndigbo for power to shift to the region was a clarion call to strengthen the Nigerian union. He said, “A Nigerian President of Igbo extraction will engender unity, harmony, equity and natural justice in our dear fatherland. Indeed, the goal of unity was achieved without doubt by this model of rotation of the presidency from the South to North – Falae/Obasanjo model – which not only featured in 1999, but also governed the 2007 and 2015 presidential elections outcome. Okechukwu further said, “The rotation or zoning convention was founded by patriots who placed national interest above self-interest, not the PDP. The PDP was just a beneficiary as the contest in 1999 was between the defunct Alliance for Democracy/All Peoples Party Alliance.” He argued that every unit of the federation should be given a genuine sense of belonging because that was the only way nations were built. For the PDP, the issue of which zone gets the shot at the Presidency in 2023 is still a subject in the realm of speculation. Some argued that the zoning arrangement had outlived its usefulness and should be jettisoned; others believed it should be retained. The National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, explained that it was too early to talk about such issues because it was “only after the issue of zoning has been settled” that such matters would be discussed. For the APC, the party is still battling to rebuild its leadership after the sack of the NWC. Party insiders declined to speak on the issue on the record. A highly placed source in the party, however, said, “It is only fair for power to go back to the South and when we say South, we mean the whole of the South; it is left for the South to decide which part. “If the South-East wants it, they have to make a strong case and convince the rest. If the South-West wants it, they have to do the same; this is politics.” Political pundits also expressed the view that the region that prodruces the next National Chairman of the APC hails from would determine where the pendulum swings. Second Republic Joint House Leader of the Peoples Redemption Party, Dr. Junaid Mohammed, expressed the view that the political conversation around the 2023 presidency had been reduced to the issue of zoning and rotation of power because there was a consensus that “this government has failed.” He said, “The government of today is not doing well largely because indolence, nepotism and incompetence has been elevated to a level unprecedented in our political history. The situation has been made worse by brazen corruption by the power elite that has impoverished the people. Politicians often resort to engaging ethno-religious sentiments and regionalism when it suits their purpose, 2023 is no different.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com