Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja Operators in the built environment have expressed determination to put an end to the recurrent cases of building collapse across the country. At the just concluded two-day virtual national workshop of the Nigerian Institute of Building, operators in the sector proffered solutions to address issues of building collapse in Nigeria. The workshop had participants from key ministries, departments and agencies of government, as well as stakeholders from other professional organisations in the built environment. The President, NIOB, Kunle Awobodu, said the workshop was one of the institute’s practical and proactive steps towards addressing the unwarranted and embarrassing menace of building collapse in Nigeria. He said the workshop addressed building production and structural stability issues, adding that it was attended by eminent personalities from strategic sectors of the economy. The Chairman, Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria, Prof. Kabir Bala, who doubles as the Vice Chancellor, Ahmadu Bello University, said building collapse in Nigeria remained a concern for builders and other professionals. He underscored the need for operators to continue to update their knowledge in order to fully maintain best practices. The inputs of participants at the virtual workshop were contained in a communique that was made available to our correspondent in Abuja on Friday by the NIOB. Participants at the virtual event addressed critical knowledge and practice areas in foundation design and construction, as well as structural analysis and design of buildings. They addressed software application in the design of building structural system, structural failure in buildings, design of concrete mix and field applications, and builders/formwork design in building construction. A former President, Nigerian Institution of Structural Engineers, Victor Oyenuga, canvassed a Nigerian annex of the Eurocode for structural design. He equally called on academic and research institutions to investigate the engineering properties of local stones in Nigeria especially in the South-Eastern states. This, he said, would be useful to guide the design of concrete mixes and corresponding construction. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com