Can you briefly tell us what HYPREP and its mandates regarding Ogoniland are all about? The HYPREP Project Coordination Office was set up in March 2017 with the mandate to remediate the oil-polluted sites of Ogoniland and to restore the livelihood of the people. Activities at the PCO commenced in April 2017 when the project coordinator assumed duty. The period between April 2017 and December 2019 was used to plan and put up contracts that were awarded in the fourth quarter of 2018, and remediation works started in January 2019. The award of contracts has to follow through with the Public Procurement Act, 2007 and while most people expected that we go out to hire contractors, we have to comply with the law of the land. With the procurement processes out of the way, there were issues of land disputes between communities and chieftaincy tussle, as well as flooding, which affected the timely mobilisation of contractors to site. Community issues dragged on until early January 2019 when some were resolved. These issues affected the commencement and speed of work. Another setback is the lockdown and reduction of the workforce in order to observe the COVID-19 guidelines of social distancing. There are concerns about funding for the cleanup exercise; how correct is this? The Federal Government and the joint venture partners have agreed to provide funding for the cleanup of Ogoniland as recommended in the United Nations Environment Programme report. And HYPREP was established by the Federal Government to implement the recommendations contained in the report. Initially, N1bn was recommended and that money was raised in this administration. Now, the money is given at $200,000 yearly, which is meant to start from when we started in 2017. However, that they are giving you $200,000 yearly does not mean that you will spend all of it, rather the funds are all tied to various cleanup activities. So, what has been released to this point for the activities that we are currently doing is about $30m. Now every year, as I said, you have to provide $200,000. But right now, we are still dealing with the less complex sites and have not got to the sites that will take much of the money. So, how far have you gone with the cleanup of the less complex sites? The remediation projects are executed in phases, as the sites are divided into complex and less complex locations. We are now in the less complex sites. We first awarded contracts to 21 companies, and in February this year, 36 companies were awarded contracts. So right now, we have 57 companies on various sites. The first 21 companies have completed their jobs by about 70 per cent on the less polluted sites, and in few months, the jobs would have been fully completed on the sites allocated to them for remediation. Also, it should be noted that HYPREP commenced preliminary remediation activities in early 2018, almost eight years after the UNEP report was submitted. The UNEP report on the assessment of Ogoniland was carried out between 2009 and 2011. Also, I would like to state that in the cleanup process, the speed of each contractor differs due to the difference in terrain and community issues. So, based on the current status, about 70 per cent are expected to complete work by the end of August 2020. The other 30 per cent is expected to finalise by the end of November 2020. All remediated sites will be certified by the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency, being the lead regulatory agency for oil spill management in Nigeria. Can you provide more clarity on the polluted sites and how you are remediating them? The hydrocarbon-impacted sites have been classified into two categories for the ease of implementing the remediation process. These are the sites listed in UNEP report factsheet. Category A is the sites with significant hydrocarbon contamination in the soil and groundwater. These are classified as complex sites because of the presence of both soil and groundwater contamination. We have 27 sites in Category A. On the other hand, Category B are the sites with lighter hydrocarbon contamination, limited mainly to the soil in the upland areas. We have 27 sites in this category. There is also another classified as Category X. These are sites with low hydrocarbon contamination impact which were listed in the UNEP factsheet 11 years ago, and a total of 11 sites fall into this category. In view of the length of time of the UNEP report aforementioned, a recent quantitative risk assessment is required and will be carried out at each of these sites to determine the current condition and will be re-classified and treated accordingly. HYPREP has delineated those sites assessed by UNEP in order to determine the lateral and vertical extent of the pollution and compute the volume of soil and groundwater that may require remediation. Delineation of impacted sites has been undertaken to the depth of contaminated soil and groundwater. In the event of ex-situ remediation, the excavated contaminated soil is being treated in engineered biocell that are properly lined with high-density polyethylene and equipped with engineered leachate sump. The use of the engineered biocell is to prevent secondary pollution through storm runoff as stated in the UNEP report. There is also the concern of potable water provision to the affected communities. What is HYPREP doing about this? The potable water supply component of the emergency measures is one that has been much talked about. The strategy is to provide a sustainable potable water supply system to the impacted communities. HYPREP has carried out water quality assessment of all drinking water sources in the four Local Government Areas of Ogoniland. Assessment of the existing water sources has enabled HYPREP to identify areas most needed for the emergency water supply scheme. We have also carried out a survey of the water reticulating distances in the four LGAs for the supply of potable water in the communities. Ten existing water schemes will be rehabilitated across the four LGAs and are expected to supply about 10,950,000 litres of water per day to the communities. We are also in the process of engaging consultants to carry out detailed design for new water scheme in Ogoniland. The tendering processes are ongoing. It might also interest you to know that we have commenced the process of health and environmental impact study with a preliminary conduct of two separate medical missions to the four LGAs to collect initial data for the exercise. About 20,000 persons were treated for various ailments and 200 surgeries carried out. HYREP has held a series of meetings with the Rivers State Ministry of Health, having in attendance representatives of the United Nations Environment and its public health experts to solicit the ministry’s cooperation for the use of the state government’s medical facilities such as health centres, hospitals and medical records. This will enable us to conduct the health study as recommended in the UNEP report on the environmental impact study of Ogoniland. The meetings culminated into the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the ministry. Are you involved in human capacity development efforts in the region? Yes, while we work towards the restoration and remediation of the polluted sites in the affected communities, we also create alternative livelihood opportunities for the people of Ogoniland. We have carried out various activities to improve livelihoods of men, women and youths in the four LGAs under the phase one of our livelihood programme. One of such is the youth training on fabrication and use of cassava processing machine. This is a tripartite capacity building training programme in collaboration with the Stakeholders Democracy Network and the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture. The machines fabricated include peelers, graters, sieves, pressers, driers and roasters or fryers. To ensure the sustainability of the training programme, the SDN, in collaboration with HYPREP and IITA, Onne, is currently constructing a cassava processing factory in Korokoro community of Tai Local Government Area. The next activity, which HYPREP is about to commence, is the training of 400 Ogoni women in agribusiness and entrepreneurial skills. In May 2019, HYPREP signed an agreement with the United Nations Institute for Training and Research to train the 400 Ogoni women selected from the four LGAs on agro-based skills such as feed production, poultry, fish and crop farming. We have also increased our public awareness campaigns to the communities, at town hall meetings and in the media on the dangers of illegal bunkering and refining on human health, environment and the economy and also for the youths to take ownership of the project. The youths have been captured under our livelihood training programme. This is aimed at giving them new and legitimate means of income. And as a means of empowerment, under phase one, batch one of our remediation contracts, over 500 community youths have been recruited. They are currently working on 21 sites. When the contractors under Batch II commence, over 700 community youths will be engaged by the contractors. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com