Minabere Ibelema mibelema@bellsouth.net If you read this headline as a reference to rich and poor people or countries, that’s understandable. But it isn’t. It refers rather to a future—a near future—in which some countries have largely gotten rid of the virus while others are very much besieged by it. And that is without regard for the wealth of the nations. In global terms, it is plausible to say that the worst is over, never mind the record-setting surges in a number of US states and a handful of countries. There is a variety of reasons for this sunny forecast. To begin with, the death rate is falling even in the US states where the virus is surging. In mid-July, Dr. Joseph Varon, the chief medical officer at a major hospital in Houston, told the press that only a small percentage of their patients were dying. Houston, by the way, was the epicentre of the disease. “Our ward is full of coronavirus patients, but we’ve had amazing success in treating them,” the UK daily, The Telegraph, quoted Varon as saying. “Around 95 per cent of people who have come in here have walked out.” The success has been attributed to early intervention and more effective therapy. At the beginning of the global outbreak, hospitals were often overwhelmed. Therefore, people were advised not to go there unless or until their condition gets serious. That’s counter to the normal advice that people seek treatment as soon as possible. Advising to the contrary was, in effect, telling people to wait until the virus gets a death grip on them. And in too many cases, medical therapy could not pry open the grip. Now that the afflicted are getting treatment earlier, both the severity and death rate have vastly improved. Another reason for the stunning success rate Varon spoke enthusiastically about is that physicians now have a better understanding of what works and what doesn’t. Earlier on, it was a matter of trial and error. Now Varon and his colleagues have developed a combo of antiviral medication, steroids, vitamins and zinc that have proven potent even in treating the sickest patients. Antiviral medications such as remdesivir attack the virus itself. And, for good measure, steroids, vitamins and zinc block the virus’s instruments of death, most notably inflammation and blood clots. Coronavirus mutations Mutations by coronavirus is another hopeful trend. Though the findings seem contradictory, they might actually converge in a positive direction. In mid-June, Italian medical researchers and physicians reported a marked decrease in severity of COVID-19 infections. “It was like an aggressive tiger in March and April but now it’s like a wild cat,” Prof. Matteo Bassetti, head of an Italian infectious disease clinic, told the Telegraph.“Even elderly patients, aged 80 or 90, are now sitting up in bed and they are breathing without help. The same patients would have died in two or three days before.” Then about two weeks later, Dr. Anthony Fauci, America’s top infectious disease official, said during a podcast by physicians that the virus has begun to replicate faster. “I think the data is showing that there is a single mutation that actually makes the virus be able to replicate better and maybe have high viral loads,” Fauci is quoted as saying.“We don’t have a connection to whether an individual does worse with this or not. It just seems that the virus replicates better and may be more transmissible.” Given the pattern of lower death rates, the virus is apparently not getting deadlier. However, the surging infections in the US, Brazil, South Africa, and India indicate that it might be becoming more transmissible. This reconciles what seems to be contradictory findings on mutation. We would, of course,want the virus to becomeless transmissible, along with being less severe. But if we have to choose, less severity is much preferred. After all, the common cold is highly transmissible, yet we live with it as a nuisance. Droplets vs. aerosol Another basis for a sunny forecast on COVID-19 is that its transmission process is now better understood. Earlier on, the claim was that the virus could not stay airborne for long. Therefore, the focus on prevention was on washing hands and avoiding touching surfaces, especially the nose and mouth. Now it is well known that coronavirus remains airborne much like other respiratory viruses. So, the emphasis has since shifted to wearing face masks while in public, especially where social distance cannot be maintained. Beyond that, the virus’s floating tendencies and factors of infection are better understood. Early in May, Erin S. Bromage, an associate professor of biology at the University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth, posted a fascinating article detailing the various factors of coronavirus infection. Among other things, Bromage shows how exposure and viral load interface to lead to infection. For example, a sneeze can propel 30,000 droplets across a room at 200 miles per hour and a cough 3,000 droplets at 50 miles per hour. So, in a church, for example, people several rows in front of an infected person who sneezes without a facemask may contract the virus, while those sitting close behind and to the sides are not affected. Speaking also releases droplets, but even at close quarters it takes several minutes of exposure to inhale sufficient viral “dosage” to trigger an infection. Singing or speaking loudly are different matters. Joggers are to worry more about the people in front than those behind. However, in an open space, the virus disperses. So, the chances of inhaling enough ‘dosage’ to become infected is relatively low. It’s a different matter if the jogger continues to inhale the light load for a prolonged period of time. Utilising what is known Pending development and wide availability of vaccines, how people utilise the available knowledge of coronavirus is what will determine which countries are the haves and which the have nots. Those countries where people religiously behave in accord with what is known about the virus will soon return to normalcy. Those who disregard the known factors will remain mired or experience a surge. In Nigeria, for example, open markets may safely operate if sellers and buyers follow a simple protocol: wear facemasks, minimise bargaining and conversing, point to, rather than say, what you want to buy, leave as speedily as possible and go home. Inside taxis and buses, it is best to keep windows and even sliding doors open to air out the vehicle. Air-conditioners may provide comfort, but they circulate and recycle the virus. These are not normal ways of doing things, of course. But they could be the new normal that will soonest lead to actual normalcy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com