Umar Muhammed, Lafia A 48-year-old man, Umaru Aliyu, has been arrested for luring a three-year-old girl to the side of a stream close to his house in the Mararaba area of the Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, where he allegedly defiled her. The incident occurred on May 26, 2020, at the New Orange Market area in the local government area. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr Bola Longe, who confirmed this on Monday in an interview with PUNCH Metro in Lafia, said the suspect was apprehended within the local government. He said, “On May 27, 2020, a report was lodged at the ‘A’ Divisional Police Headquarters, Mararaba, by one Mr Abdullahi Lawal of the New Orange Market, Karu LGA, that on May 26, 2020, his three-year-old daughter was lured by one Umaru Aliyu, 48, to the stream side close to his house and had unlawful carnal knowledge of the girl.” The CP added that upon the receipt of the report, the police swung into action and apprehended the suspect, adding that the case was under investigation. The police boss also revealed that the command arrested 42-year-old Aliyu Adamu for allegedly dragging and defiling an eight-year-old girl, who was on her way to an Islamic school in his compound and had unlawful carnal knowledge of her. Longe added that the incident happened around 6pm on May 26, 2020, in Lafia, the state capital. According to him, the case is under investigation at the Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department, Lafia, and the suspect will be charged to serve as a deterrent to others. The suspect, who lives at the Bukan Ari area of the Lafia Local Government Area of the state, confessed to our correspondent and claimed that he was motivated to commit the offence because he had a dream that he had sexual intercourse with a child between the ages of five and 10 to enable him become rich. “I was pushed to defile the eight-year-old girl because I had a dreamed that I had sexual intercourse with a child between the ages of five and 10 to enable me to become rich,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 