James Abraham, Jos Gunmen, on Thursday, opened fire on officials of the Nigerian Correctional Service in the Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State and freed some suspects. It was learnt that the NCS officials were conveying the suspects, who were charged with homicide, to a court in the area when the gunmen attacked them on the court premises. It was gathered that during the attack, six of the inmates brought from the Jos Correctional Centre escaped with the gunmen, while four others were recaptured. A statement by one Mr I. K. Ikiriko of the state command of the NCS, confirmed the incident. He said, “On July 23, 2020, around 1.01pm at the High Court, Barkin Ladi, some gunmen stormed the court and aided the escape of six inmates out of 10 brought from the Jos Prison for trial. “Findings revealed that the inmates were brought in a van escorted by four armed officials of the correctional service around 9.55am; the gate was immediately opened and as soon as they entered the court premises, the gate was locked. “Around 1.01pm in the process of removing their handcuffs, six were already freed from the handcuffs, the attackers started shooting. “The attackers were able to aid the escape of six without handcuffs, while the four with handcuffs were apprehended by troop of the OPSH, Sector 4, and taken to the Barkin Ladi Police Division; search for the attackers and fugitives has commenced.” The statement named the suspects as Umaru Adamu with two others; Bashiru Mohammed with three others; Musa Mohammed with two others; and Abdul Haruna with one other. The Plateau State Police Command said it had launched a manhunt for the gunmen and the fleeing suspects, adding that it had recovered three motorcycles. The spokesman for the command, ASP Ubah Ogaba, said this in a statement sent to The PUNCH. Ubah said, “The Commissioner of Police visited the scene along with riot policemen, conventional policemen and detectives. “With the quick intervention of the police, three motorcycles were recovered. Investigation is on to arrest all the suspects and bring them to justice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com