Gbenga Adeniji The death on Friday of a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Tunde Braimoh, has left the state chapter of the All Progressives  Congress and his associates in shock. Braimoh, buried on Friday at the Ikoyi Cemetery according to Islamic rites, served as chairman of the assembly’s House Committee on Information, Security and Strategy. He represented Kosofe Constituency II. He was once chairman, Kosofe Local Government. Our correspondent gathered that Braimoh would have been 60 on September 30. Apart from his quality contributions on the floor of the House during plenary, the deceased was also a power dresser and an orator. An ex-member of the Assembly, Mr Ipoola Omisore, who once occupied Braimoh’s position, noted that the lawmaker’s demise was shocking. Omisore spoke with our correspondent on the phone on Friday night. He added, “He was the occupier of my former office. He was young and ebullient. He was a power dresser and an orator. He was a lawyer and a committed democrat. He was on his second term as a member of the Assembly. He was a wordsmith and a star in the Assembly.” Also, the state APC Chairman, Mr Tunde Balogun, noted that his death was a loss to the party especially as the party on June 15 lost a senator, Bayo Osinowo aka Pepperito. Stating that Braimoh offered his oratory skills by anchoring the party programmes for free as a committed party man, the party chairman recalled how he spoke eloquently during the assembly’s event in honour of Osinowo who served four terms in the House before contesting a seat in the Senate. Balogun said, “ He had a gift of eloquence. He would be sorely missed by all of us. I pray God to give his family, party members and colleagues the fortitude to bear the loss. He anchored programmes for the party free of charge.” Kosofe, Braimoh’s constituency, is under Lagos-East senatorial district which the late Osinowo represented in the Senate. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com