Ogbonnaya Ikokwu, Umuahia A Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Abia State, Chief Don Ubani, has called on the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Chief Chinedum Orji, to resign. Ubani, in a leaked text message to Orji, on Tuesday described him as treacherous betrayer for visiting a former governor of the state, Chief Orji Uzor-Kalu, who was recently released from Kuje Correctional Centre. He alleged that Orji, pledged loyalty to Kalu, who is member of the All Progressive Congress. Ubani said, “Democratic Ethics and Decency demand that you resign as Speaker in a PDP-controlled House of Assembly.” Ubani, who was a former Commissioner for Petroleum and Information under former Governor Theodore Orji, alleged that Kalu, sued him for defending the Speaker’s family. The text message read in part, “Upon all I did for your father’s administration, I was unjustifiably owed seven months of my entitlements. I was not given a car as a commissioner that ceaselessly defended the administration. There was no severance allowance! I endured all these, taking them as the outcome of man’s imperfection. “But I am in pains to realise that you are a betrayer of trust. Inexplicably speedily, you ran to Chief Orji Uzor-Kalu, who was released from prison merely on technical grounds, to bow down and pledge loyalty. You did not only pledge loyalty to Chief Kalu of APC, you declared him the ‘Authentic Leader’ of, not even your Old Bende, but Abia State.” Ubani, however, issued a statement on Wednesday insisting that he didn’t leak the text message in question to the media but only sent it to the Speaker and 10 members of the PDP in the House. “I forwarded the text to the 10 PDP members of Abia State House of Assembly from Ukwa Ngwa geo-political zone of Abia State. I did not forward the text to any media person.” In response, the Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker, Mr. Jude Ndukwe, said, “My attention has been drawn to a publication by one Don Ubani, as it relates to the Rt. Hon. Speaker of Abia State House of Assembly, Chinedum Enyinnaya Orji, and wish to state that, in his usual political equanimity, the Speaker does not and will not respond to the tantrums of political jobbers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com