Sunday Aborisade, Abuja THE President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has asked the Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd)-led federal executive to ensure the submission of the 2021 national budget before the end of September this year. Lawan stated this while referring the 2021-2023 Median Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper, which were submitted to the Federal Parliament by Buhari on Tuesday to the relevant committees of the Senate for necessary legislative action. He said the presentation of the budget before the end of September would enable the National Assembly to complete necessary work on the document and pass it before the end of December. The Senate President also asked Committees on Finance; and National Planning to engage all the revenue generating committees very well to ensure a thorough job. Lawan charged both committees to engage the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning on the MTEF/FSP request. He stressed the need for the panel to lend its support where necessary to revenue generating agencies towards meeting expected revenue targets. The committees were given four weeks to submit their report to the Senate. Lawan said, “The request of Mr. President, C-in-C, is referred to the two committees, Senate Committees on Finance; Budget and National Planning, with Finance as the lead-committee. “This Senate is giving the committees four weeks within which to work very closely with the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning. “They should in particular engage the revenue generating agencies where we are expecting them to meet their targets. “We need to ensure that they have all the support that they require from the National Assembly, particularly the Senate, to meet their targets. Meanwhile, the executive should continue to work on the preparations for the 2021 budget. “By this, we are also equally committed to ensuring that we receive the budget estimates at the end of September so that we would be able to consider the budget and get it passed before the end of December to repeat what we did for budget 2020,” Lawan said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    