Oladimeji Ramon Nigerian cleric, Rev. Chris Okotie, has described the COVID-19 pandemic, which has killed nearly 600,000 people worldwide, as a satanic conspiracy to create global panic. In a sermon titled, ‘The COVID-19 Mystery,’ posted on YouTube on Sunday, July 12, Okotie also described American billionaire businessman, Bill Gates, as the COVID-19 protagonist allegedly being used by Satan to challenge God. Okotie, who is the pastor of the Household of God Church International Ministries, in Oregun, Lagos, said the number, 10, was symbolic to COVID-19 and Gates fitted that pattern. He also described the COVID-19 pandemic as the precursor to the coming of the anti-Christ to the world, saying it was why people had been asked to stay at home worldwide. Okotie, however, posited that online church service was unbiblical and unacceptable to God. He said, “There is a man who is the protagonist of this whole process that we are seeing today. His name is Bill Gates; and he is the one that I am going to be referring to. “His name is William Henry Gates and he is the third generation of his family. His grandfather, William Henry Gates; his father, William Henry Gates; then himself, William Henry Gates, the third. “For you to understand why he was chosen, you need to understand what the bible calls patterns. “Satan decided that in the year 2020 – if you look at 2020, it is 10, four times and the number 4 is the number of creation. So, this year was particularly chosen by Satan as the year that he would challenge the power of the Almighty God, the authority of Almighty God upon the face of the earth, in preparation for the coming of the anti-Christ. “But how is he going to do it? First, he has to get a man who has the pattern and that man is Bill Gates. And then there will be a conspiracy to bring a pandemic, sickness, a disease, whatever it is. Why is it that important? Because the curse of the law, which involves sickness and disease was dealt with when Jesus went to the cross and the sacrifice was accepted. “So, if the earth is going to experience a challenge coming from the god of this world, it must refer to something that God has already dealt with spiritually. So, he brings a disease and names it COVID-19 and attaches the number, 10, to it and the protagonist of this will be Bill Gates, whose number is 10. “Now, what would they do? They would create panic in the whole world because that is the only way that the enemy can control man, the way that God controls man through faith. “If we look at the life of Bill Gates, we begin with his birth; the man is 64 years old; he was born on the 28 of October 1955. Now, October is the 10th month – that is the number 10. “1955, when you calculate it numerically, it is 1 and 9, 5 and 5, it gives you 10, 10. So, you see his age, 64, is 6+4, again, it comes to 10 – this number that is identified with the power of Almighty God, demonstrating His supremacy. “So, when Satan wants to challenge that, he would make sure that whoever is the instrumentality for that challenge bears the number, 10. And that is why Bill Gates has that number identifying him as the chief protagonist of this concept of the opposition of Almighty God created by the Luciferians right here in our own world.” Okotie had recently opposed government’s COVID-19 social distancing guidelines for churches, describing the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria as “modern day Pharisees bereft of any authority to speak on behalf of the Church of Jesus Christ.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 