Kelvin Ekerete Bettors have lamented the unpredictable trend of results in the English Premier League since its restart, saying it has left them with huge losses in the last couple of weeks. The EPL has recorded some shocking results since its resumption after the COVID-19 break, with top teams like Manchester City, Chelsea, Tottenham and champions Liverpool recording shocking losses. City lost to Southampton, Chelsea lost to West Ham and Sheffield United, while Liverpool lost 4-0 to City. “The result in England, especially this period, shows betting on EPL teams is the easiest way to lose money. Several times you place your bet on a sure team like Chelsea to beat Sheffield and they end up losing. Honestly, I’m not placing any bets in the EPL till next season. This is the most unpredictable time I ever encountered in the EPL,” Biodun Gbadamosi, a betting agent, told our correspondent. “We all know how crazy the EPL can be, but this period is even different. I placed a goal-goal bet in the game between City and Liverpool and Liverpool ended up not scoring. Then I placed a bet on United beating Southampton and they ended up scoring four goals and drew. That just shows how crazy this period is. I’m winning when I place bets on other leagues but I’m yet to win in the last couple of weeks from EPL bookings,” Timi Shoyoye, a money transfer agent, told Saturday PUNCH. A graduate, Akanimoh Gabriel, added, “I think the reason why the results are not coming as expected when I bet is because the season is coming to an end and everyone is looking for points to better their positions. The most shocking one for me was the Man City loss; it made me lose N178, 000. It was the only game that didn’t come through despite having one of the lowest odds.” Despite the results, other bettors say they are still willing to place their bets on EPL teams. “It is still one of the surest leagues in the world. What I’ll do is to focus on just the big teams till the end of the season but those fighting for Top 4, that’s a no-go area for me,” David Michaels, another bettor, added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com