Dayo Ojerinde The Managing Director of Pre Diagnosis International, Dr John Iguve, has advised the country’s public health care managers and organisations desirous of contributing to the task of reviving the country’s dilapidated health infrastructure to embrace telemedicine. Iguve, in a statement, said the old practice of building public health facilities that were often left to rot away due to poor use was no longer sustainable. He said the plan by the Private Sector Health Alliance of Nigeria to build new Primary Health Care centres  across the 774 Local Government Areas of the country was weak. “Modern-day public health care is efficient only when health services can be extended to the hard-to-reach areas, when location, economic and social status do not dictate access to quality health services, when everyone has equal access to basic health care services and when all people and communities can use the preventive, curative and rehabilitative health services they need in sufficient quantity without exposing them to financial hardship as declared by the World Health Organisation. “For us at Pre Diagnosis, we have achieved progress in our burning desire to harness modern technology to effectively distribute quality total health care to two million vulnerable Nigerians annually, in a cost-effective way that maximises the scarce human resources. “At the centre of this breakthrough is an ultra-modern technological platform known as the PDI TeleHealth Hub that was designed to provide a holistic solution to the identified gaps in the country’s health care space, particularly in the underserved areas,” Iguve said. He added that the country’s dwindling economic fortunes which impacts the availability of funds for developmental efforts dictate that the best model the country should embrace was one that could deliver quality health care services to the remotest, underserved villages in Nigeria by leveraging technology to maximise the scarce human and operational resources. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 