The Chief Executive of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, formerly Consumer Protection Council, Mr Babatunde Irukera, shares his thoughts with TUNDE AJAJA about some issues raised by consumers lately The issue of estimated billing by electricity distribution companies is of concern to many consumers, and now the cost of the prepaid meters has gone up while electricity tariff will also be increased soon. What do you see as the lasting solution to customers’ dissatisfaction in this regard? The lasting solution to estimate billing is the supply of metres to each user. This is the only way to eliminate the need for estimated billing and to ensure that consumers would only pay for what they consume. We are following up with the efforts of Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission to ensure the metering of all consumers. In the interim, we have engaged with National Electricity Regulatory Commission on the need to put a cap on estimated bills, and this has been introduced. NERC is now working to ensure that distribution companies comply with the capping of estimated bills and to ensure the metering of all consumers within the shortest possible time. The proliferation of fake/substandard goods across the country is also an issue of concern, especially the imported ones, what would you propose as the solution to this menace? Increased awareness and enforcement action are needed to address this problem. However, consumers own a big chunk of the blame. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, 58.5 per cent of counterfeit and pirated products sold globally in 2016 were sold to consumers who actually knew they were buying fake products. This means that if consumers stop demanding for fake and substandard products, we will effectively reduce the profitability of this trade by almost 60 per cent. Therefore, in addition to enforcement action to prevent the importation, manufacture, distribution and sale of substandard, fake or counterfeit products, substantial effort is required to sensitise consumers against the purchase and use of such products. There was a time the police said people are wont to complain against injustice in the social media instead of filing a formal complaint at the police station. As the agency saddled with protecting the interest of consumers, what do you make of that approach? For us, discussing issues on social media raises public awareness about those issues, and sometimes compels the businesses involved to respond to the complaints. I do agree that consumers should file a complaint when they have a grievance; however, if the purpose of a social media post is to bring the issue directly to the knowledge of the business, then it is for all intent and purposes a lodged complaint. The consumer is entitled to use any available channel through which the business can be reached. It is important to bear in mind that sometimes, consumers contact businesses through emails and other private channels, but get no response, and are therefore compelled to use the public platforms. Consumers also use social media channels to reach us, and we regularly act on complaints received through those channels. The purpose of having multiple channels is to create easy access for consumers. If the consumer is not interested in filing a complaint, but simply wants to narrate their experience with a business, they are absolutely entitled to do that also. These kinds of public discourse help to raise awareness about consumer issues and also keeps the business on their toes. I believe that is very good for the ecosystem. Some people seem to have lost faith in government and would rather resort to social media to vent, would you say there is an increase in people filing formal complaints now or it is reducing? Absolutely! We are witnessing an increase in the number of complaints we receive. I believe that increased awareness and an increase in the number of channels through which we can be reached are responsible for this. This is a good thing because as more people complain, we get a clearer picture of the consumer issues across the country, and this enables us to address widespread issues broadly, in addition to addressing individual complaints. There is a growing concern among millions of subscribers over the decision of MultiChoice to increase its subscription cost across the board, is the FCCPC aware of this? In times like this when many people have lost their sources of income, and are struggling to provide for themselves, it is reasonable that there would be concerns about such an increase. We are aware of complaints on social media about the planned price increase and we are engaging with the company on this. While we are indeed concerned about the rights and interest of consumers, it is important to recognise that the FCCPC is not empowered to fix prices for a business. However, where we believe that a price regime is exploitative, amounts to gouging, or is in other ways a violation of the law, we will take action to remedy whatever violations occur. It is important to note that a price increase is not in itself an evidence of a violation of law. We hope that the ongoing engagement will provide further clarity on the issue. The explanation is that the increase is due to an increase in Value Added Tax, which is understandable. Since the mandate of the commission is to protect consumers who are largely not comfortable with the increase at this time, can there be a way to resolve this? Indeed, the mandate of FCCPC is to protect consumers, however, we also have a mandate to enable businesses by promoting competition in the marketplace and removing entry barriers. In this instance, we cannot take action against MultiChoice unless we determine that the proposed price increase is a violation of law. Over the years, there have been insinuations that MultiChoice is exploiting its Nigerian subscribers with the absence of pay-as-you-go service (whereby the subscription continues to read even when they are not around to watch it), which is available in some other countries where the company operates. Does the FCCPC plan to engage the company over this? We have engaged with MultiChoice on this, and we advised the company to consider introducing more flexible options for its consumers. While it is not within our mandate to determine what products a company should offer, we hope that they would consider the suggestion as they strive to meet the needs of their consumers. We have also engaged with the company on the concern about a subscription running when the consumer is absent and unable to use the service. In response to this engagement, MultiChoice has increased the number of times that a consumer can suspend a subscription from two to four times in a year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 