Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The National Human Rights Commission has obtained a court order stopping its staff and union members from embarking on a strike. The union had threatened to begin industrial action on July 16 in agitation for the payment of arrears arising from the new national minimum wage and their investigations allowances. However, the NHRC in a motion ex parte with suit number NICN/ABJ/159/2020, prayed the National Industrial Court to stop the Nigeria Civil Service Union, the Nigeria Civil Service Union (NHRC unit), the Chairman of the union, Efem Atu; and is Secretary, Kurugh Bem; from embarking on strike. The commission sought three reliefs including an order of interim injunction restraining the respondents, their agents, proxies and affiliates from indefinitely withdrawing their services, shutting down the offices of the NHRC nationwide or embarking on industrial action from Wednesday, July 15, 2020. The NHRC also sought an interim injunction stopping the respondents from gathering.
Justice E.N Agbakoba, who granted the ex parte order, stated, “The defendants are hereby restrained by themselves, agents, privies, proxies, affiliates or servants whosoever named deriving authority from them from indefinitely withdrawing their services from the applicant’s offices, shutting down any of the applicant’s offices or embarking on any industrial action of any sort pending the determination of the motion on notice filed by the court.” The NHRC was established by the National Human Rights Commission Rights 1995 (as amended) in line with Resolution 48/134 of the United Nations General Assembly which enjoins all member states to establish independent national institutions for the promotion, protection and enforcement of human rights. The commission serves as an extra-judicial mechanism for the respect and enjoyment of human rights. It also provides avenues for public enlightenment, research, and dialogue in order to raise awareness on human rights issues. A former Chairman of the NHRC, Prof. Chidi Odinkalu, who posted the court papers on Twitter, said it was ironic that the very agency that was established for the purpose of protecting and advancing the rights of citizens could secure such a court order. “In a starkly ironic twist today in Abuja, NHRC procured an ex parte order from the National Industrial Court without a return date precluding its staff union from exercising their trade union rights.”