Peter David, Benin City The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Edo State, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, on Monday said the four cardinal programmes of the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria in the Second Republic attracted politics. Ize-Iyamu is among the 14 candidates that will contest the September 19 governorship election in the state. Speaking during the inauguration of his six-point agenda for the state tagged, “SIMPLE,” the APC standard bearer said it was important for political parties and politicians to have a manifesto. Ize-Iyamu said, “When Chief Obafemi Awolowo in 1978 formed the Unity Party of Nigeria, even though I was quite young, I was fascinated by the manifesto of his party, the four cardinal programmes of the UPN namely: free education, free health services, integrated rural development and employment for all. “It was very easy to understand and it was all-encompassing and that manifesto alone made me take an interest in the party and I became a member of the youth wing. From an early age, I appreciate the role of manifestoes in party formation and to me, it was key in the choice of the party to belong to.” He said he would continue with the water project of the state because flooding had become a major problem. “The water storm project cannot be abandoned, we must commend those who planned it. Four years ago, when I was contesting for the office of the governor, I commended the foresight because I realised that flooding was becoming a major problem in our state, and especially in Benin City. “Even though it is difficult to see, if there are projects that (Governor Godwin) Obaseki has started, I can assure you that we will complete them, it does not make sense to abandon projects,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com