Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The sacked local government council chairmen in Oyo State, under the aegis of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria, has described a resolution recently passed by the state House of Assembly directing them to hand over the state government’s properties in their custody as mischievous in view of the fact that the Appeal Court did not sack them in a ruling it delivered on Wednesday. The Federal Court of Appeal sitting in Ibadan had rejected the prayer of the affected chairmen to reverse their dissolution by Governor Seyi Makinde on the grounds that their cause of action was “pre-emptive, premature and speculative and therefore, failed to disclose reasonable facts.” In response to the judgement, the state House of Assembly, on Thursday, directed the sacked chairmen of the 33 local government areas and 35 local council development areas in the state to return all government properties in their possession to their respective councils. However, the affected council chairmen, in statement on Sunday by the ALGON chairman, Prince Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, said, “Appeal Court never upheld the illegal dissolution of democratically elected local government by the state governor. “It only allowed the appeal by the state government to challenge the High Court judgement we procured before Governor Seyi Makinde became governor and not our mandate because it was never a subject of appeal in the first instance.” He enjoined all affected chairmen and councilors, as well as the residents of the state to ignore the resolution by the state house of assembly Meanwhile, the Oyo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party said the decision by sacked members of the state chapter of the ALGON to seek legal redress at the Supreme Court, as an enterprise in futility. The party said this in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji, on Sunday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 