Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. Various forms of technology have been deployed in the combat against the COVID-19 and surely, the technologies connected with the Fourth Industrial Revolution are not an exception. From the use of mobile technology for contact tracing and effective collection of data to applying artificial intelligence in running diagnostics, 4IR has offered some ways to combat the high impact of COVID-19. We cannot shy away from acknowledging that these technologies have not been uniformly distributed across the globe and this is leaving many developing nations lagging, in pulling through this pandemic period. This is also exposing the already vulnerable third world population to the adverse effects of the pandemic. Of course, this comes at a great risk and increases the free flow of transmission of the disease. In the last days of December 2019, BlueDot, a Canadian AI model, gave warnings on the global spread of COVID-19. It is safe to say here that the warning was taken seriously. Some healthcare organisations have, also, succeeded in creating a COVID-19 screener, based on AI that can determine patients having critical symptoms of the virus. In terms of adherence to social distancing, cameras with AI-based computer visions are used to monitor gatherings in the public. In China, thermal imaging with AI integration are used to scan public areas to pick out people that are likely to fall sick. Tech giants, like Google and Apple, collaborated to provide mobile Bluetooth technology to support contact tracing. Robots and drones have done well in ensuring social distancing among people, through the delivery of medicine and food to health facilities that are housing infected patients. Vendors have, also, been able to perform cashless transactions. Advances in nanotechnologies are not left out of the equation as they have played major roles, in areas like monitoring and surveillance, development of new personal protective equipment and rapid diagnostics. Lovers of 3D printing are, also, taking crucial steps in making essential medical supplies. How good would all these technologies associated with 4IR have been if they were fully deployed.in developing countries of the world. Africa is not left out of this but not much of technology has been applied to combat this pandemic here. It boils down to our ability to harness the power of these technologies, in combating the pandemic. Countries across the world have varying capacity, in terms of the digital infrastructure and human capital, for maximizing these technologies. How countries like Germany, South Korea, the USA and Spain deployed technologies around the 4IR, during the COVID-19 era, will assist policymakers in Africa, in taking decisive actions, at intervening, in fighting the pandemic, with respect to the resources available in their respective countries. Countries with high effectiveness and usage Countries with capacities for both effectiveness and usage have highly deployed technologies associated with the Fourth Industrial Revolution in fighting the pandemic. For instance, Germany has managed death rate from COVID-19 much better than other European countries. Germany is employing the use of location data obtained from smartphones to carry out assertive contact tracing. In South Korea, a company used already existing AI technology to create testing kits, a process that took them days, compared to an average production that take weeks. With this, South Korea has excess testing kits on ground before the pandemic hit a global scale. The country’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention employed the use of a mobile app for reporting symptoms, with AI-enabled chatbots and calls, to pass information and find nearby testing locations in the country. South Korea empowered its Ministry of Health to obtain data, from telecom companies, credit card transactions and other sources. This has allowed the country’s officials, to get an automatic alert, if an individual crosses the boundaries, set for compulsory quarantine. Countries with high capacity but low usage In these countries, the health care systems are having the challenge of integrating the technologies that could prove useful in fighting the pandemic. In the United States, for instance the health authorities failed to up their game, in the manufacture of essential medical supplies. The response from public health has, even, been highly uncoordinated. Of course, the United States is advanced in technology, yet it failed in carrying out contact tracing, through its many available digital options. For a country like Spain, it took the 3-D printing ecosystem to step up the production of medical protective equipment after the government failed to act in the face of massive shortages. Countries with low capacity and high usage This is the case for many developing countries that are utilising mobile phone solutions as they are getting more popular in the countries. These rather simple technology solutions are employed to ensure social distancing. For instance, in countries like Nigeria, Ghana, Senegal, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, mobile phone technology has ensured that more people have access and make use of mobile money, rather than transaction, by cash. In Nigeria, the health ministry has employed WhatsApp push notifications to pass reliable and accurate information about signs /symptoms, prevention and treatment of the pandemic. Information dissemination is surely not enough, however, it can help reduce unnecessary trips to hospitals and other health facilities. In Uganda, a service moved its operations to mobile, such that there is no room for physical interaction with the delivery driver. The app is Market Garden. With a public-private collaboration, HelloDoctor, a mobile health platform was made free for use in South Africa. Countries with low capacity and usage In times like this, countries that fall into this category would be the most vulnerable. In countries like Chad and Central African Republic, the governments experienced hard times in deploying the limited resources, towards the direction of innovative technologies to combat the pandemic. In this case, what is needed is a deliberate effort on the part of the government to be effective in whatever capacity it can. We have seen poor countries that have deployed drones in delivering medical supplies. Capacity and usage of technology does not exist in isolation. Tech innovators and government bodies all play major roles in how 4IR would be deployed to effectively combat this pandemic. The lacuna between the capacity to use and deploy exists. Countries that have found themselves at the disadvantaged side should brace up their leadership, innovation and general readiness. One cannot also neglect the need for global solidarity among countries. The world needs all it can now to curb the dangerous effects of the pandemic. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com