Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, has ordered its members to withdraw pending court cases against the party within 14 days. The state APC Caretaker Committee Chairman, Chief Yemi Sanusi, gave the directive after the party State Working Committee monthly meeting held in Abeokuta on Wednesday. This was contained in a statement by the APC publicity secretary, Tunde Oladunjoye. He said the decision was in line with the directive received from the national leadership. The party said it received the directive via a letter signed by the National Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, dated July 1, 2020, addressed to all state chairmen of APC. The statement reads in part, “Rising from its monthly meeting of the State Working Committee held at the state party secretariat, Abeokuta, the party chairman said the directive for members to end all litigations was in compliance with the resolution  of the 8th National Executive Council meeting held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, and presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari on June 25, 2020, wherein it was resolved that all pending litigations in all various courts in Nigeria should be withdrawn by party members who instituted the suits.” The statement quoted Sanusi, as saying the “decision of  NEC, has been communicated to the Ogun State Chapter through a letter dated July 1, 2020 addressed to All State Chairmen of the APC and signed by the National Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, the State Working  Committee met today and we unanimously passed a resolution to fully abide with the NEC’s directive.” The NEC letter reads in part, “In line with the resolution therefore, you are to coordinate with your State Legal Advisers and Secretaries to encourage members who have instituted matters in any court against the party to withdraw same within 14 days from the receipt of this letter. Documentary evidence on the withdrawal of such court processes should be sent to the National Secretariat of the party along with a report on any observation on members who have withdrawn such matters.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    