Tessy Igomu Experts in reproductive health have warned that conceiving six months after undergoing a caesarean section could lead to uterine rupture. They said what many couples interpret as delayed conception after CS is usually medically-based advice for women not to get pregnant too early to safeguard against uterine rupture. According to MSD Manual, an online platform for gynaecology and obstetrics, uterine rupture is the spontaneous tearing of the uterus that could result in the foetus being expelled into the peritoneal cavity. It explained that the condition is rare and can happen during late pregnancy or active labour, and occurs often along healed scar lines in women who have had prior caesarean deliveries. The experts, Dr. Joy Agbara, a consultant Obstetrician and Gynecologist at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja; and Dr. Adeyemi Okunowo, a consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologists at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, said women are usually advised to wait for at least two years after CS before conceiving, to allow for the scar to heal effectively. According to Agbara, women who had especially their first child through CS are advised to wait between 15 to 24 months before embarking on another pregnancy. “This is for their wellbeing and that of the child,” she said. She, however, said the timing might vary, as reproductive experts could decide on different waiting time. “Some say the wait between the last delivery and the next delivery should not be less than 15 months; while others may say the time between the last delivery and the next conception should not be less than 12 months. “But in all, what we advise is that women should wait for at least two years. “The essence of asking a woman to wait a while before conceiving is to allow the scar to heal, especially for a woman who is just having her first child. “This is so because, with CS, you are making a cut or incision on a woman’s abdomen and the uterus. Time should be allowed for proper healing so that the integrity of the scar is there. “A clean wound, like that of a CS done as an elective, with all things being equal, is expected to heal within one to three months. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 