Ife Ogunfuwa Telecommunications operat-ors are doing better than operators in other industries amidst COVID-19 pandemic because they provide alternative platforms for socialisation, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Mr Segun Ogunsanya, has said. Ogunsanya said it was a misconception that telecommunications companies were benefiting from the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that voice revenues had gone down. Speaking at the monthly UBA Business Series held virtually on Tuesday, he said the telecoms industry had provided a platform for the replacement of many social activities. Ogunsanya said voice revenue, which formed the bulk of their service, fell during the lockdown because the earnings and purchasing power of Nigerians in the informal sector were adversely affected. The Airtel CEO said, “There is a misconception that the telcos are benefiting from the pandemic. Anytime there is a lockdown, people don’t earn money due to the restricted movement, especially those who earn daily in the informal sector. “Voice revenue is tanking while data revenue, which constitutes 30 per cent of the revenue, is increasing. “Nobody is benefiting but we are probably doing better than other industries. “The only saving grace is that we are a replacement industry, which is a sort of buffer for us. We all must figure out a way to make sure the pandemic comes to an end.” Addressing the topic ‘Strategies and competencies for adjusting to a post-COVID-19 business environment,’ he encouraged business leaders to clarify the purposes of their businesses and focus on them. He said it was important for business executives to rebuild trust in their customers as many of them were worried about spending, advising them to provide multiple platforms for interacting with customers. Ogunsanya urged enterprises to create satellite offices close to homes   or explore the use of shared spaces to reduce expenses on rent. While advising CEOs to reward employees for outcomes rather than time spent, he said working from home would become the new trend after the pandemic. Ogunsanya emphasised the need for businesses to leverage technology, collaborative tools, cloud services, self-service apps and have a reliable broadband partner. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com