Alexander Okere The Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, on Friday, said he was not involved in any litigation involving the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State or anywhere in the country. Amaechi, in a statement by his media office, raised the alarm that an unnamed group was plotting to tarnish his image by alleging that he had a “phantom interest” in a court case involving the APC in the state. The former Rivers State governor warned that no one should drag his name into any court matter involving the party in the state or anywhere else as he was, “for now,” concentrating on his work at the Ministry of Transportation. The statement read in part, “We are aware of plots by a group attempting to muddle the name of the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, by dragging him into an ongoing court case involving the APC in Rivers State. “The group has perfected plans to rubbish Amaechi’s image by falsely claiming that he (Amaechi) plans to influence the outcome of the said court matter. We want to clearly state that the minister is not in court with anybody or any matter relating to the APC. He is in no way involved in any case whatsoever with the APC in Rivers or any other individual or entity in relation to the party. “The individuals or group pushing this patently false, ill-conceived narrative about the minister are, by this statement, warned to immediately desist from their evil plot. We are not unaware of their sponsors and paymasters. “We will shame them publicly in due time if they don’t put a stop to their nefarious, ungodly, treacherous plans. Let us restate that the Rotimi Amaechi is not a defendant or respondent in any matter in court relating to the APC, whether in Rivers State or anywhere else,” it added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 