A few of the seven private laboratories accredited by the Lagos Government to conduct COVID-19 tests in the state charge extra pay for their services under a term they describe as “logistics.” The charge for logistics or mobilisation range from N10,000 to N50,000, PUNCH HealthWise can report. Findings show that the cost of the test might pose a challenge for the average citizen in the state. The state’s Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, during a briefing at Alausa, said the private laboratories were selected through a rigorous validation process. The Director of Lagos Biobank, Dr. Bamidele Mutiu, said the accredited laboratories had the capacity to test for the virus “within the parameters of the COVID-19 Lagos testing strategy. It may be recalled that, on April 19, the state government said in order to increase COVID-19 testing capacity in Lagos, it had set up sampling stations in the 20 local government areas for citizens who fit the case definition of COVID-19, to visit and drop samples for testing. PUNCH HealthWise had reported that the sampling stations did not take off as expected. Meanwhile, the seven private laboratories currently licensed by the state government to carry out COVID-1 tests are Total Medical Services, SynLab, 54 Gene, and Medbury Medical Services. The rest are, Biologix Medical Services, 02 Medical Services, and Clina Lancet Laboratories; while commissioner Abayomi reiterated that more private laboratories will be accredited as soon as they go through the rigorous validation process set by government. “This is to avoid monopoly,” Abayomi explained, while reminding members of the public that the state’s public testing centres “are still free and accessible to all Lagosians.” Such public laboratories are the Lagos State Bio-bank at the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba; Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba; Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, Yaba; and the Central Public Health Laboratory, Yaba. As of July 6, a total number of 43,978 COVID-19 tests has been conducted in the state, the commissioner said. Meanwhile, findings by our Correspondent show that the cost of testing at any of the accredited private laboratories is N50,400 — an amount that is nearly double the monthly minimum wage of N30,000, effectively pricing it out of the reach of the majority of residents. As if that is not a disincentive to go for COVID-19 testing, two of the private laboratories approached by our Correspondent said they charge extra N10,000 and N50,000 respectively for what they called “logistics” or “mobilisation.” In other words, clients stand to pay either N60,400 or N100,400 in any of the two centres if logistics or mobilisation fees are factored into their charges. 54gene charges N50,400 for COVID-19 test, N50,000 for mobilisation Although Prof. Abayomi had promised that, “as the public protector,” the state government would regulate the cost of COVID-19 testing In Lagos, at 54gene, it was gathered that apart from the N50,400 payable for COVID-19 test, a client may also be required to pay an extra fee of N50,000 for “mobilisation,” based on certain conditions. A gate man at its Lekki, Lagos Island office, told our Correspondent that clients are not allowed to come to the centre for COVID-19 test. “You have to call the number on the website and they will put you through on the procedure. “However, if it’s an organisation who wishes to have their staff tested, they can come here for the test; but in individual cases, the samples are collected and brought here for the test,” he said. When PUNCH HealthWise called the number (07000544363) on its Facebook page, which the mobile caller detector, Trucaller, identified as ‘Janet-Gene,’ the responder explained that the biotechology company is not a walk-in centre for COVID-19. “It’s not a walk-in laboratory. If you are interested in having a COVID-19 test in our lab, you need to send an email to our official mail [hello@54gene.com] with details of the test you want, the capacity, the number of family and we will get back to you.” According to her, 54gene used to conduct tests for only corporate bodies until recently when it decided to be testing individuals. “We just recently integrated private testing; we didn’t use to do that. We were targeting corporate companies. This has just been integrated and our target used to be a family or individuals from 10 [in number] and above.” On the process for testing, Janet said there were sample collection centres in the state and that interested individuals will go to the one closest to them for sample collection. “Some people are not comfortable with us coming to their houses, so we have sample collection centres and we will choose the one closest to you and we will take your sample; but it depends on whatever works for you. “If you want to do the test now, I can forward your details to the account officer, who will create an invoice for you and will keep you updated as soon as possible. “Once your sample is collected, we will get your bio data and we will create an account for you. Once that is done, you will get an email prompting you to verify your account. “With the verification process, you will input a password and you will create a PIN, which will allow you to access your result within 48 hours once it is ready,” she said. On the price payable, she said, “The regular price for COVID-19 testing is N50,400, but when you want us to come to where you stay, it will cost you an extra N50,000 for mobilisation. That will be N100,400.” To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  