The Deputy Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly who also represents the Odigbo Constituency I, Mr Iroju Ogundeji, shares his thoughts with PETER DADA about his recent suspension by the assembly and the forthcoming election in the state. In the past few days, the Ondo State House of Assembly has been in crisis. What is happening? The Ondo State House of Assembly was on recess until a week ago, when the speaker invited the lawmakers for a COVID-19 screening, shortly after the governor personally announced that he had contracted the disease. Several lawmakers had accompanied the governor to Abuja to submit his nomination form for the forthcoming governorship election in the state. We were, therefore, asked to go to the speaker’s house for the COVID-19 screening, which we all attended. It is believed that when such a screening is carried out, the result will be ready in 48 hours. But to our dismay, on the second day which was July 7, the speaker announced on the air that we were reconvening for plenary. The normal tradition when reconvening is to, first and foremost, hold a parliamentary meeting, where we table and agree on the matters we plan to discuss at the plenary. However, the July 7 plenary was an unusual one; no parliamentary meeting was held before it.  When we got there, meetings were held and the speaker later called on the clerk of the house to read a letter from 14 members of the assembly, alleging gross misconduct on the part of the deputy governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi. Meanwhile, some of us had got wind of the impeachment move before they brought it to the floor of the house. On several occasions, they had attempted wooing me to join them; they even invited me to Ekiti State and talked to me. I told them that I couldn’t do anything that would run contrary to the dictate of my conscience. I told them I wouldn’t be one of the people that would sign the impeachment notice. Those of us that got wind of the impeachment move later agreed and wrote a letter to the speaker and the clerk of the house, dissociating ourselves from the planned impeachment. The letter was submitted to the speaker at the plenary, copies of which had been circulated all over the place. You and two other lawmakers have been suspended. Is the suspension related to your decision to oppose the impeachment plan? Definitely. The house was expected to resume sitting on Wednesday. Before the plenary, the speaker called me and two other colleagues to inform us that the governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, and the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in the state, Ade Adetimehin, had given him marching orders to suspend us. The speaker also said he had instructed security agents not to allow us onto the assembly premises. I asked the speaker if his action was in line with the law of the land.   He told me he was acting on instructions from the governor and the chairman of the party. Immediately, I put a call through to the commissioner of police, who I believe is the chief police officer of the state and the one in charge of maintaining law and order. The commissioner of police told me that his men should not be dragged into an unnecessary political mess. He said I should go and carry out my normal constitutional duty and that no police officer should disallow me from doing so. So, we all marched into the assembly chamber, where the plenary was held. No policeman harassed me; none of them disallowed me from entering the chamber and the business of the day began. The speaker later asked the clerk of the house to read a letter, which purportedly emanated from a parliamentary meeting that was not held. The letter stated that myself and two other colleagues, Favour Tomomewo and (Adewale) Adewinle, had been suspended from office. As a result, he said we should not come near the premises of the assembly. He said we were suspended indefinitely. I told him that although he had told me before the plenary that the governor and the party chairman had directed him to suspend us, he was carrying out such an instruction against his conscience. I said no section of the constitution backed his action. READ ALSO: More people’ll soon leave Akeredolu’s govt –Abegunde, ex-Ondo SSG Have you now handed all the property of government in your possession to the clerk? As I speak, I am still the deputy speaker of the assembly, the number two principal officer of the assembly. I remain the deputy speaker of the state assembly. The speaker, without mincing words, forgot to add in his ruling that my suspension had nothing to do with my office as the deputy speaker. Didn’t he say you should not go near the complex? To me, that is funny and laughable.  I still maintain my position as the deputy speaker and the constitution is very clear on how and why I can be impeached or removed. Before I can be removed, the constitutional requirements must be followed duly. The same requirements are applicable to the governor and the deputy governor, so I still maintain my position as the deputy speaker of the state assembly. Are you saying you will still go to your office for legislative work? In order not to cause mayhem and to allow peace to reign, I am currently consulting to know the next line of action. We understand your impeachment is part of moves to get the required two-third majority to impeach the deputy governor. Now that the three of you have been suspended, do the speaker and his group have the required number to impeach the deputy governor? The answer to your question is ‘NO’. As you have rightly said, it is part of the antics of a group in the house assembly and some people who have been paid to carry out the proposed impeachment. However, the constitution is very clear. If you check Section 188 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, the so-called suspension they did is not known to the law. So, what they have carried out is laughable. For any state house of assembly to impeach the governor or deputy governor, the members must form a two-third majority; and in the case of the Ondo State House of Assembly and the matter on the ground, the membership of the assembly is 26. It is a known fact that a two-third majority is 18. From this analysis, nine of us have signified our opposition to the impeachment plan. If you deduct nine from 26, you have 17. And 17 does not form a two-third majority of the assembly. There is no way 17 members can succeed. And let me quickly add that in a situation of this nature, it is expressly stated in our rules that the speaker has no vote because the constitution states clearly that not only the signatures of members but physical voting will be counted on the floor of the house. The speaker is the presiding officer; he has no vote. If you remove the vote of the speaker, you have 16. Mr Speaker can only vote when you have a tie among members. If there is no tie, it is the rule that the speaker has no vote. So, there is no way the impeachment can succeed. The deputy governor has left the APC to join the Peoples Democratic Party. Some of you that are not supporting the impeachment plan are members of the APC. Is it right for you to support a PDP member? Let me quickly put the record straight. There is a difference between partisan politics and relationship. There is a difference between legality and morality. It is a known fact that the deputy governor has defected to the PDP, but I, Iroju Ogundeji, the Deputy Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly, am a member of the APC. I was elected into the house on the platform of the APC and I will remain in the APC and continue to work for the progress and success of the APC. So, my opposition against the impeachment move has nothing to do with my membership of any political matter. It is a matter of conscience. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] Poll: Ondo APC members stage street protest against indirect primary So, why are you not supporting your colleagues in the impeachment process? It is because I don’t want to support the multitude to do evil. The multitude is doing evil and I must not join them. What is this evil? To my mind and conscience, all the allegations against the deputy governor are not genuine. I am not convinced within me; the allegations are frivolous. As far as my personal conviction is concerned, I have dissociated myself from it and it has nothing to do with my party affiliation. At a point, we learnt some lawmakers were invited to certain places. Were you also contacted? I actually heard that some of our members were called to certain places and were (allegedly) induced (financially) but I do not know the veracity of that claim. As far as I am concerned and in fairness to the governor, he did not, at any point in time, call me personally. However, there were people that came to me in the name of the governor, claiming they were emissaries of the governor. They wanted me to sign the impeachment notice. I told them vehemently that signing the impeachment notice was against my conscience and that I would not do it. Not only that, a few days ago, the speaker, the chairman of the party and I were invited to Ekiti State in the name of the governor of Ekiti. The Chief of Staff to the governor of Ekiti was in attendance, the Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly and his deputy were equally in attendance; and I was asked to join the impeachment process and I told them that I was not against them but that the move (impeachment plan) was against my conscience. I told them I would not be a part of it and I made my position known to them. You were one of those that accompanied the governor to Abuja. Are you now against the second-term ambition of the governor? I have mentioned earlier that the impeachment has nothing to do with partisan politics. It is a constitutional matter. You will recall that when the governor went to Abuja, I was one of the members of the state assembly that accompanied him. That is to tell you that my support is for him and, as I speak, my support is still for him. I have not withdrawn my support. However, if the governor says I should sign an impeachment notice and I know within me that this is against my conscience, why should I do it? I have decided not to support that because I am an adult and the electorate that elected me to the assembly knows that I can decide, after due consultations, what is good and right for them. Accompanying him to submit his nomination form in Abuja and supporting his second term does not mean I should support this impeachment move when my conscience does not support it. I do not want to do anything against my conscience that will affect my future; conscience is an open wound and nothing can heal it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 