Ife Ogunfuwa Experts have condemned the timing of the implementation of the stamp duty on rent and leases in the country. The experts who spoke with The PUNCH on Monday in separate interviews asked the Nigerian government to emulate other countries that were easing the tax burden on their citizens. An economist with the Lagos Business School, Dr Bongo Adi, said the plan of the government to start collecting stamp duty when many Nigerians were facing economic hardship showed the government had no good intention towards the people. He described the increased tax burden on ordinary Nigerians as counterproductive, insensitive and not in the interest of the people. “Any government that is increasing tax at this time is not a well-intentioned government and not a government that takes the situation of the citizens into consideration,” Adi said. He pointed out that countries like Germany had granted many people and businesses tax waivers until the economy improves. Adi added that many governments have been supporting households that had been affected financially by the coronavirus pandemic with palliatives. He said, “What we have gathered from other countries like Germany is a postponement of payment of taxes until the economy comes around. “In most economies, the government has resorted to supporting households and small businesses by giving them monetary palliatives. He noted that the COVID-19 palliative loan introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria, which would have cushioned the effect of the pandemic on small businesses and household had not been strategically deployed. However, he said the stamp duty policy had existed for long but was abandoned by the government due to abundance and easy access to oil revenue. Overtime, the economist said government neglected its obligation to the masses and Nigerians also learned how to avoid paying taxes. He likened the practice whereby the government that was not providing infrastructure, social services and not supporting people in any way but was demanding stamp duty on rent and leases to a government that wanted to reap where it didn’t sow. The Director General, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association, Timothy Olawale, stated the government had a legal basis for collecting stamp duty on rent and leases. However, with many Nigerians facing unemployment, low purchasing power and economic hardship, he said the timing was wrong. Olawale noted that due to the crash in oil prices, declining revenue and rising expenditure, the government was exploring every opportunity to raise revenue. “Everything has the right time when it should be done. We know the government is short of funds and looking for every avenue to rake in funds to execute its projects,” the NECA DG added. “All these developments are coming at a wrong period. What the masses, businesses and citizenry need basically support because as it is, many people are struggling to survive and make ends meet.” He urged the government to defer the implementation of Stamp Duty Act on rent and leases to another time. The Federal Inland Revenue Service had disclosed its intention to start imposing stamp duty charge on rent and lease agreements. The revenue collecting agency said for rent/lease agreement between one and seven years, the stamp duty rate is 0.78 per cent of the value of the rent or lease. The agency added that for rent or lease between eight to 21 years, three per cent was payable while for agreements above 21 years, six per cent would be paid to the government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 