OUR correspondents The President, Maj Gen Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), a National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and a former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, on Saturday commiserated with the Kwara State Governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, over the death of his father, Alhaji Ganiyu AbdulRazaq, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria. Buhari’s tribute was contained in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. The statement was titled ‘President Buhari mourns Abdularazaq, lawyer par excellence.’ The late Abdulrasaq died at 93. This came as three governors and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, attended the burial of AbdulRazaq, at his Idi-Igba family compound, Ilorin, Kwara State, on Saturday. Presidency spokesman, Shehu, quoted the President as saying that he was saddened by the news of the death of Abdulrazaq who he described as a statesman and an outstanding parliamentarian of his time. Meanwhile, Tinubu, in a statement titled  ‘Papa AbdulRasaq’s passing, end of an era,’ described the death as the end of an important era in the country. He said, “The passing at 93 of the iconic patriot and elder statesman, Alhaji Abdulrasaq, popularly known as AGF, signifies the end of another era in the annals of this country. Also, Saraki, in a statement, titled ‘AGF Abdulrazaq: Kwara has lost a statesman,’ described the death as a loss of one of the statesmen produced by the state. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, also condoled with the Kwara State governor over the demise of the patriarch, saying the late elder statesman was a trailblazer. In his own message issued via Twitter, a former governor of Kwara State, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed, also commiserated with the governor. Meanwhile, the Progressives Governors’ Forum said AbdulRazaq’s death was a loss to the community of Nigerian progressives and the nation. The PGF is the umbrella body of governors elected on the platform of the APC. Also, the northern socio-political organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum, condoled with the family and the people of Kwara State over the death, saying the northern body received the death of the governor’s father with shock. Meanwhile, three governors and the House Speaker, Gbajabiamila, witnessed the burial on Saturday at the Idi-Igba family compound in Ilorin. The governors who attended the solemn but brief burial ceremony held at about 4.30pm included Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, who doubles as the acting National Chairman of APC, and Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, while Gbajabiamila led a delegation of the House of Representatives which included James Faleke. The burial service was led by the Chief Imam of Ilorin, Alhaji Mohammed Bashir. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com