Olaleye Aluko The Lagos State Police Command has arrested a man, Uche Ede, who allegedly sneaked into a shop and stabbed a female seller to death in the Ajao Estate, Isolo area of the state. Our correspondent learnt that Ede was arrested by the Ajao Estate Police Division on Monday after he allegedly broke into the shop to attack the seller, identified as Ogechi Umunakwe. The shop is located on Nwobodo Eze Street in Ajao Estate and the incident occurred around 2.30pm, according to a police source. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Ede allegedly attempted to rob 39-year-old Umunakwe of some money during which he stabbed her several times. Some persons around the shop saw what happened and raised the alarm. He said, “On Monday, the man came unnoticed armed with a knife, entered the shop and met Umunakwe on duty. The shop did not belong to her; she worked there. The attacker attempted to collect some money from her and I think there was resistance. He stabbed her several times but those who saw what happened raised the alarm. “The attacker could not escape. The woman’s boss, one Mr Nwagu went to a police station to make a report. The woman was rushed to a private hospital and was rejected. Then, she was rushed to the Isolo General Hospital where she was confirmed dead by a medical doctor. The police have arrested the man and recovered the knife.” “The suspect was arrested and currently under interrogation. We have the exhibits. A discreet investigation is ongoing,” a policeman at the division noted. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, confirmed the arrest. He said, “That is true. The suspect is in custody. The case has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Yaba. Investigation is ongoing and the suspect will soon be charged to court.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com