Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja Fourteen people, including 13 members of the same family were killed in an early morning attack by suspected bandits on Wednesday in Agudu, in the Kogi/Kotonkarfe Local Government Area of Kogi State. The state Commissioner of Police, Ede Ayuba, while briefing journalists on the activities of the command, said “the 13 family members were wiped out” by the attackers, adding that another person was killed, while six persons sustained injuries. He said when the police got to the village, the bandits had left, adding that normalcy had been restored to the area. The CP, who noted that the attack could have been triggered by age-long communal disputes in the community, described it as unfortunate. He said, “A man and 12 family members were killed. His son is the only survivor. Another person was killed, while those injured have been taken to  the hospital.” The police boss further disclosed that the killers of the late Innocent Ofodile, owner of popular Chuck’s Supermarket in Lokoja, who was murdered on Lokoja-Abuja Road, had been arrested. He explained that one Vincent Omogor, who was arrested for kidnapping, confessed that he and his gang members were responsible for the killing of Offodile. The CP said the gang carried out the killing “on the order of one of his shop attendants, who complained of not being attended to when he approached him for financial assistance when his father died.” Meanwhile, parading 23 other criminals, the command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP William Aya, said the hoodlums were picked from different parts of the state. The PPRO explained that the suspects were arrested for armed robbery, banditry, kidnapping, and possession of illegal firearms, among other crimes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 