Your party recently demanded a probe of ex-governor Rauf Aregbesola. If that is not done, what do you intend to do? Our recent reaction to the former governor was actually provoked by the lies being dished out to the world about his performance while in office. This was done during his recently held birthday colloquium. Osun State is today on the brink of undeserved insolvency with governance reduced to complete absurdity because of the man’s financial recklessness and fraud while he held sway. It is on the record that the ex-governor led the state to financial stupor with his borrowings without deliverables. It is painful that the state is being made to service loan obligations that were never expended on major projects. All major projects these loans were made to achieve for the state were all abandoned and it is strange that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and other anti-graft agencies have turned a blind eye to the cry and petitions against Aregbesola up till now by several groups in the state, even when his crime against the state is too clear for the blind to see. What does a rift between Aregbesola and Oyetola portend for the state? We don’t have anything to do with their rift. Whatever they have against each other is their problem as members of the same political party. Our major concern in the PDP is to restore dignity and human value back to our dear state. As you can see, most actors in the Osun PDP are true sons and daughters of the soil who have good family names and pedigree to nurture and protect. Those in the All Progressives Congress only see the state as a mere market square for fraud and wealth accumulation. Many of them have no stake in the state other than the Abeere Governor’s Office where they perpetrate all kinds of crimes against the state. So, we are not in any way amused by their frosty war. All we are concerned with is putting the PDP in the right pedestal towards winning future elections to salvage the state from total collapse. But as a party in government, don’t you think any rift between the incumbent and his predecessor may impact negatively on the people of Osun, including PDP members? That is the only area we will appeal to them to let common sense prevail. Gboyega should be reminded that he did not swear a muscle-flexing oath as the state helmsman. He should remember he has a duty to deliver on the mandate he struggled so much to procure for himself. Dissipating so much energy fighting Aregbesola is evidently taking a toll on governance of the state and that’s why nothing is happening after almost two years into his administration. Although I agree that the undoing of the APC-led administration in the state since 2010 has been their inability to distinguish between governance and politicking, I advise the governor to detach himself from an unnecessary ego war and face governance. In essence, we are not concerned about their infighting but we are bothered the unreasonable fight is already icing their failure in the state. If the governor wants to fight, instead of productive governance the state badly deserves at this time, he should resign and step into the ring with Aregbesola. PDP is currently factionalised along Ogunbiyi and Adeleke lines. What are you doing to address this? First of all, there’s nothing like a faction in our party in Osun State. Having interest groups in a political party should not be misconstrued as factions. It is also not out of place to have groups of various interests in a political party; it has always been like that since time immemorial. As to what we are doing, it is the duty of leadership of the party to galvanise these interest groups into a formidable team as a political party. This, however, is a continuous process, which is what we are doing and we will continue to meet and interact with these interest groups for the benefit of our party. You are from Ede, same town as the governorship candidate of the PDP in the 2018 poll. People are already insinuating that Senator Ademola Adeleke will be handed the PDP governorship ticket in 2022 considering the fact that you are in charge? I want you to understand that I had been elected the state deputy chairman of Osun PDP right before Senator Adeleke returned to the party. So, my being from Ede or current position does not have anything to do with the interest of Senator Adeleke. That I am in charge of the party today is a constitutional issue we cannot alter just because I’m from Ede and one of my kinsman is seen to be interested in the governorship ticket of the party. We cannot afford to run the party into unnecessary constitutional crisis just because of where I come from or because a governorship aspirant is also from Ede. As state deputy chairman, the leadership baton of the party automatically and constitutionally falls on me immediately our former chairman was asked to step aside from office. The governorship ticket is another crucial bridge entirely, which we will live to cross whether I’m the one in charge or not, because the party is an institution whose leadership is a continuum. I can assure you that the party will be fair to all aspiring individuals by way of conducting credible and transparent primaries to elect our party candidate.  But like I said, that is not the preoccupation of the state working committee of our party for now. We have a duty to strengthen the party before the elections and that is what we are doing presently. Let me even give you an instance: the current APC chairman in Osun is from Boluwaduro LGA, while the governor is from Boripe LGA. The two LGAs are called Boripe/Boluwaduro State Constituency in the state House of Assembly and there is no issue. I am from Ede South LGA, Senator Ademola Adeleke is from Ede North LGA, so there is no issue anywhere. But it is still obvious that your party is in crisis going by the suspension of the state chairman. What are you doing to avoid defections? I don’t know what you mean by the word ‘crisis’ but if ‘crisis’ is what is in the books, then the PDP in Osun State is not anywhere near the word ‘crisis.’ All the party organs in the party are up and running without skirmish or hindrance as we speak. The state working committee of the party has been meeting with all the members always in attendance. The local government party chairmen are also doing their bit without any incident of dissent. We just inaugurated a committee headed by a former commissioner and local  government chairman, Drayo Faforiji, to go round and interface with party members across local governments in the state to come up with collated and overwhelming opinions of party members and stakeholders on the party’s participation in the forthcoming local government election in the state. We are also doing so many other things to strengthen the party in the state and we are adequately carrying our people along. So, for me, our party is fine; we are not in any form of crisis. Will Osun PDP participate in the forthcoming LG polls? Like I said earlier, our party members and stakeholders’ stance on this will surely go a long way in helping the State Working Committee to take a decision. As a democratic party, there are certain decisions you don’t just lord over party members without due consultations. A committee has been set up for this purpose; they will soon turn in their report and the party will  take a decision thereafter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com