The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Twif Clothings, Oluwabukunmi Omotoso, tells TOFARATI IGE about his business What needs does your business cater to? We cater to men who appreciate well-tailored and unique clothing with heightened attention to details. One thing our customers have in common is that they have eyes for good things. What inspired you to go into this line of the business? My love for clothes as a teenager definitely inspired my decision to design clothes and eventually learn the beautiful art of tailoring. I regularly find myself creating designs in my imagination and working on them to bring them to life. Basically, I love to help people look good. What are the highlights of the business? We have had several highlights but one of them would definitely be getting recognition for clothing some of Nigeria’s finest entertainers and political leaders. What are the biggest jobs you’ve handled? In recent times, I designed the costumes for Davido’s One Milli music video. I also made the outfit that a former Big Brother Naija contestant, Mike Edwards, wore to this year’s edition of Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards in March. That outfit won him the ‘Best Dressed Outfit’ award at the event. I have also designed the costumes for a television series, Battleground; Zlatan’s Bolanle music video; and a web series, Skinny Girl in Transit. What are some of the challenges you face in the course of doing your job? A major challenge is being able to manage one’s staff well. It has been said that managing human beings is one of the toughest tasks one can ever undertake. Every leader must be able to strike a balance between being flexible but firm with one’s staff. It is important to have a conducive and relaxed work environment but one must also maintain decorum and discipline. Staying relevant in such a competitive industry is another challenge. It seems new fashion designers emerge every day and one must constantly innovate and be at the top of one’s game. Do you have any corporate experience? No, I didn’t have any corporate experience prior to starting my business. How many staff members do you have? We currently have about 12 full-time staff. What inspired your new collection, Deluxè by Twif? It was borne out of the intense passion and desire we have for our clients to have access to premium clothing without having to break the bank by creating sustainable luxury. Though I have worked with many celebrities, I don’t consider myself an elitist fashion designer. Our products are always of high quality but we also make sure that we cater to different pay grades. Whoever you are, I’m sure there would be something for you at our store. Which celebrities have you worked with? I’ve been opportune to work with a couple of celebrities including 2baba, Davido, Mike Edwards, Lasisi Elenu, Peruzzi, Joseph Yobo, Mawuli Gavor, Falz, Timini Egbuson, Kunle Remi, and Zlatan. What you consider before accepting jobs? The most important thing I consider before taking any job is to make sure me and the client are on the same page. It is better to be clear on what is expected of me from the onset and what the client is also supposed to provide. I cherish my integrity and I go out of my way to make sure I don’t disappoint clients. If I cannot meet up with a certain completion or fulfill some obligations, I immediately tell the customer. My word is my bond and my customers have come to identify me with that. As a result of this, my customers trust me and they gladly refer people to me. Have you ever felt like quitting your business and seeking paid employment? To be candid, yes. Earlier on in my career, I sometimes felt like quitting but now, I am more focused and energised. Now, I am even constantly looking for new businesses within the industry. Who are your role models? My father is my biggest role model because I have learnt a lot from him. I also admire the popular fashion designer, Seyi Vodi. How do you advertise your services? I make use of social media. I post a lot of my designs on my Instagram page and from there several customers, who saw my products, would ask me to make for them as well. Also, referrals have been working greatly for me. Many of my customers tell their friends and families about me. They are able to recommend me because they know they would get value for their services. That is why I always make sure I have satisfied clients. How do you relax? Relaxation is easy for me. I either spend time with friends or play video games. I also like going to the beach because I’ve found that it clears my head. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 