Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the Presidential Task Force in COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, and other members of the PTF have taken the COVID-19 tests. The development was sequel to the disclosure by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and PTF member, Geoffrey Onyeama, that he had tested positive for COVID-19. Onyeama, the first federal cabinet member to test positive, announced his status on his Twitter handle on Sunday after his fourth test returned positive for the virus. Our correspondent gathered on Tuesday that the PTF members who had taken the tests include the National Coordinator, Dr Sani Aliyu, Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire; his interior counterpart, Rauf Aregbesola; Aviation, Sirika Hadi; Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Services, Hajia Sadiya Farouq; and the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed. Others are the Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammad Abubakar, Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu; and the World Health Organisation acting Country Representative, Dr Fiona Braka. Findings also showed that three journalists covering the PTF media briefings had earlier tested positive for the virus. They allegedly include two reporters and an outside broadcast van engineer. After the tests on Monday, investigations show that the SGF visited the force headquarters where he decorated some newly-promoted officers. He also met with officials of the Central Bank of Nigeria at the CBN headquarters. The spokesman, SGF office, Mr Willy Bassey, said he had no information on the PTF members’ testing. Meanwhile, the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Dingyadi has gone into self-isolation for COVID-19. This followed his meeting with Onyeama last Thursday alongside a former Sokoto State governor, Senator Aliyu Wammako. The spokesman, police affairs ministry, Mr Seyi Odutayo, said, “I can confirm that the minister met with his foreign affairs counterpart last Thursday and following the announcement that Mr Geoffrey Onyeama tested positive for the virus, the minister of police affairs has also decided to go into isolation in compliance with the NCDC guidelines.” The PUNCH had reported that senior officials and staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs might  undergo mandatory testing for COVID-19. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 