John Alechenu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party in separate statements on Sunday accused each other of perpetrating the violence which led to the attack on some persons and the destruction of vehicles. In a statement titled “APC thugs desecrated our palace grounds…it was political mutiny… APC sponsors attempt to eliminate entire leadership of PDP and elected Governors,” signed by the PDP National Vice Chairman, South South, Dan Orbi, the PDP accused the APC of sponsoring hoodlums to attack its campaign council at the Palace of the Oba of Benin. Orbih said, “The unfortunate incident that took place yesterday in the course of the official visit of the Governor and members of the PDP National Campaign Council to the Palace of our Royal Majesty, Oba Ewuare II Ogidigan. “I want to place it on record that the visit was officially communicated to the Palace and the various security agencies … that included the party’s National Chairman, members of the National working committee, Governors of Rivers, Sokoto, Delta, and of course the host Governor Godwin Obaseki. “There was no official APC event in the Palace or anywhere in Benin that was so communicated in accordance with INEC guidelines. “The invasion of the Palace Gate by armed APC Youths was a well co-ordinated assault by the leadership and Sponsors of Edo APC to eliminate the National leadership of the PDP and all democratically elected Governors of PDP that were expected to be with the Governor.” He alleged that the attack was aimed at throwing the country into crisis. The opposition party demanded for a thorough investigation and those found culpable should be brought to justice. The statement read in part, “There have been several videos in the cyberspace where these thugs have been instructed, directed and motivated to intimidate and cause chaos and mayhem in the state. “The security agencies must swing into action to bring all those connected with the incident to book.” While commending PDP leaders and supporters for their restraint, he said, “I want to assure them that the party will not fold its hands and watch members attacked and killed because of their support for Governor Godwin Obaseki.” In a separate statement titled, “APC Condemns Sunday’s Violence at PDP’s Edo State Governorship Campaign,” signed by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena, in Abuja, on Sunday, the APC condemned the violence. Nabena said, disturbing images and reports of the destruction of property and violence meted on hapless victims during the PDP campaign, in Benin City on Sunday was a glimpse into the “do or die” plot the PDP plans to unleash in the lead up to the September 19 Governorship Election. He said, “To imagine that the PDP chose to desecrate the Palace of the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II is despicable, unheard of and a new low even by PDP’s ignoble standards. Why is a show of force needed on citizens you wish to govern? “The PDP in Edo State is not campaigning for votes but relying on brute force, violence and intimidation ahead of the governorship election.” He also accused the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, of inciting violence.”