Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki Governors of the South-East have asked the Federal Government to make funds available for the completion of the eastern railway corridor. The governors also asked that the South-East be integrated into the Ajaokuta-Abuja-Kaduna gas pipeline project The Chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum,  Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, told journalists these at the end of the governors’ virtual meeting on Sunday. Umahi stated, “There is currently no funding for the corridor, which cuts across the South-South, the South-East, the North-Central and the North-East regions of the country. “We will discuss with the Federal Government and the governors of other regions affected in order to achieve the set objective. “It is an existing railway line and it is very important to our people. It is just to repair it and revamp the terminals.” The governors also agreed to engage the contractor handling the Ajaokuta-Abuja-Kaduna gas pipeline to ensure that  the South-East was integrated into the project. Umahi said, “Since the pipelines are going to come from the South-South and the South-East, we feel the states in the region should also benefit. So, we are also engaging the Federal Government on this. “We also thank President Muhammadu Buhari for funding the second Niger Bridge and the Enugu International Airport renovation projects. “We have also agreed to unveil the name of a joint security outfit for the region. “On schools reopening, the governors agreed to wait for the Federal Government’s decision.” The forum also called on the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, to intervene in the rift between a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim, and billionaire business mogul, Prince Authur Eze, in the interest of peace in the region. The forum also urged the two leaders to sheath their swords. The two prominent Igbo leaders had recently engaged in media war over unsettled disagreements, which dated back to former President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com