• Cultists arrested for killing rival, five kidnappers nabbed Deji Lambo The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has announced the arrest of an ex-convict, Adeniyi Ajayi, for allegedly raping no fewer than eight women during robbery operations in different parts of the state. Speaking at a press briefing at the command’s headquarters in Ikeja on Wednesday, Odumosu said Ajayi broke into the premises of a company, robbed workers of their valuables and sexually harassed the female employees in the process. He explained that Ajayi was tracked down to the Ijora Badia area of the state and arrested, adding that during investigation, more than eight victims accused the 27-year-old of raping them during separate robbery operations. Odumosu stated, “On June 16, 2020, around 1.55pm, some female and male members of staff of a particular company reported at the Sabo Police Station that one Adeniyi Ajayi, alias Ogologo, 27, forcefully gained entry into the company. The suspect claimed to be in company with other members of his gang outside the premises. He tied the hands and legs of the staff members and dispossessed them of four phones, two laptops and ATM cards. “He sexually harassed female workers. The suspect was arrested in a hotel at Ijora Badia by SARS operatives. The stolen phones were recovered from him. It was revealed that the suspect operated alone. He was recently released from prison custody. He equally confessed to a series of robberies and rape he single-handedly committed around Sabo and its environs. “In the cause of investigation, more than eight female victims affirmed that the suspect robbed and raped them, even in the presence of their husbands and other family members. The suspect specialises in dispossessing victims of their phones, laptops and gold jewellery, and raping female victims. He will be charged.” Ajayi told PUNCH Metro, “I prefer to be killed than go to prison. I have been imprisoned before, but when I came out, I had no job and that was why I went back to robbing people. I have only raped three victims, and it was when their husbands and bosses refused to cooperate with me that I raped their wives and maids in their presence.” Odumosu also paraded nine suspected cultists for allegedly killing a rival in footage that went viral on the social media recently. The CP said the video showed the suspects interrogating the victim in the Odogunyan area of Ikorodu before he was killed, adding that the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had directed that the cultists must be arrested for prosecution. READ ALSO: Guard jailed 16 years for sexually exploiting girls in judges’ quarters Odumosu stated, “SARS operatives arrested one of the suspects, Francis Diamond, aka Iron man, who confessed to being among the suspects and that he was the one, who recorded the video showing the killing of the young man. Eight other members of the gang were arrested. They are: Olaitan Apanpa, 31; Chidi Michael, 25; Eno Sunday, 25; Saheed Gbadebo, 23; Adepeju Azeez, 38; Samuel Ilesanmi; Omotosho Quadri, 25; and Moses Ogungbe, 28. “It was revealed that Olaitan Apanpa pulled the trigger that killed the victim. The suspects are members of the Eiye Confraternity and they said the reason for killing the victim was that he participated in the killing of one of their leaders in the University of Ibadan early this year. Saheed Gbadebo single-handedly killed two persons on Bayeku Street, Ikorodu, and five persons at Ajah. The suspects will be charged.” Also, five suspects, Umaru Abdullahi, Majuba Mohammed, Aliyu Alhamajo, Mohammed Umaru and Shehu Malami, were arrested for allegedly kidnapping one Salisu Mohammed, 17, while he was sleeping at a cattle rearing centre in the Epe area of the state. Odumosu said the suspects contacted the victim’s family and demanded N10m ransom for his release, adding, “The command’s anti-kidnapping team was promptly deployed in Epe. The victim was rescued unhurt on May 13, 2020, inside a tick forest in Epe without the payment of ransom. All the suspects were arrested.” Also, 47-year-old John Gamoju was apprehended for allegedly defiling his 10-year-old daughter in the Ijanikin area of the state, while one Imoh Edet, 40, reportedly defiled his neighbour’s daughter in Bariga. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Ogun pastor allegedly rapes 12-year-old girl in uncompleted building Odumosu said the victims had been taken to hospital for treatment, adding that the suspects would be charged. The CP added that the command had arrested 41 armed robbery suspects, foiled 28 robbery attempts; and also arrested 195 suspected cultists, four suspected kidnappers and 52 suspects for murder. He noted that six cases of suicide attempts were recorded in the state, while four of the attempts were foiled. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com