Kelvin Ekerete Welterweight champion Kamrau Usman earned $640, 000 after his title defence against Jorge Masvidal in UFC 251 in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. Usman defeated Masvidal via unanimous decision after five rounds, winning 50-45, 50-45, 49-46 on all of the judges’ cards to retain his title in his second defence. The Nigerian Nightmare earned $600, 000 for appearing for the fight, and was handed an additional $40, 000 for the fight week incentive, while Masvidal took home a total purse of $500, 000 after the loss. The Nigerian has been on the financial rise since becoming the welterweight champion. He earned $590, 000 in his first title defence against Colby Covington in December 2019. He also raked in $380, 000 in his title win over Tyron Woodly. Usman has won 16 of his last 17 UFC fights, having lost his second professional fight to Jose Caceres in 2013. The win was Usman’s 12th consecutive win in the UFC, equalling Georges St-Pierre’s record for the longest welterweight winning streak. Meanwhile, Leon Edward says he deserves the shot to fight Usman, in his next title defence and not Gilbert Burns. Burns is the No.1 title contender for the welterweight title and was billed to enter the Octagon with Usman instead of Masvidal, but the Brazilian contracted COVID-19 days before the UFC 251, which automatically ruled him out of the fight. Edward congratulated the champion after the win, but called on UFC president, Dana White, to schedule him as the next to fight the Nigerian, while asking Burns to wait his turn. “Gilbert get in line and you can get yours after me and Kamaru run it back, my year. My time. Let’s do this, I’m ready,” Edward tweeted. “Usman done what he needed to! Good win. Now somebody please go and throw that BMF title in the bin and whilst your there add Woodley’s name to my streak.” Burns has however, stated that he has had more high-profile wins and deserves his shot against the champion. “Let’s go to facts I just K.O the No.5 contender (Tyron Woodly) and dominated. Leon has good wins but no one in the top 5. So as the real boss, Dana White, said, I’m next! That’s only fair,” Burns tweeted. Burns, who is the No.1 contender for the welterweight title, has lost three of his last 12 fights, while Edwards have lost two in his last 10 bouts and is the currently the no. 4 contender for the title. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com