’Femi Asu The Institute of Directors Nigeria has said companies that have adopted good corporate governance and ethical behaviour are likely to survive post-COVID-19. The President/Chairman of Council, Institute of Directors Nigeria, Chief Chris Okunowo, who said this on Thursday during a virtual press conference on the launch of the institute’s revamped code of ethics, noted that the pandemic had taken a toll on businesses. “We need to be ethical in our business practices. The companies that have adopted good corporate governance and indeed ethical behaviour in their activities are likely to survive after the pandemic has gone away,” he said. He said the code of ethics would serve as a guide for all its members and its personnel on the practice of sound business ethics and principles. Okunowo noted that the institute’s Governing Council decided to review the code to conform to present realities and the current challenges faced by directors in their roles. He said, “One of the key mandates of the Institute of Directors Nigeria is to sustain standards, values, ethics, and best traditions and continuously improve the capacities of directors to fulfil their roles of delivering value to all stakeholders. “The code, therefore, is IoD Nigeria’s commitment to maintaining its position as the leading professional body for directors in Nigeria while ensuring that its members adhere strictly to the principles of good ethics and governance in their endeavours.” According to him, the code of ethics is intended to standardise the practice of sound ethical values and principles among members and staff of the institute and induce voluntary compliance with the highest ethical standards. Okunowo said, “Our commitment to high ethical standards has continued to drive our role in promoting corporate governance and good business ethics in Nigeria. “Poor corporate governance, corruption and unethical practice affect all of us. Our future depends on organisations being run honestly, responsibly and managed effectively for long-term prosperity and sustainability.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com