Umar Muhammed and Abiodun Nejo A 25-year-old man, Yusuf Bello, has confessed to luring an 11-year-old boy to a public toilet and sodomising him. Bello said this followed his inability to control his libido after consuming a concoction he bought from a herbalist in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital. He claimed that the mixture was to cure his stomach ache. “The herbalist told me that the medicine had no side effects. But some hours after I took the medication, my manhood became hard. “I did all I could to control it, but my effort was in vain, as it kept rising. So, I went to a toilet. While I was there, I saw a boy who also wanted to use the toilet. I asked him to come in and I had anal sex with him to relieve the tension,” he added. The Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Nassarawa State Command, Dr Muhammad Fari, said the suspect was apprehended immediately after the act. He noted that the command also arrested two suspected rapists, who allegedly defiled two girls, aged six and seven, respectively. Fari said a man, who allegedly impregnated a 13-year-old girl who is now pregnant for seven months, was also arrested. In a related development, the police in Nasarawa State have arrested a 25-year-old man, Paul Umaru, for allegedly abducting and defiling a 14-year-old girl in Masaka, in the Karu Local Government Area of the state. The incident, which happened on May 5, 2020, led to the discovery of three other girls who were allegedly abducted and defiled by the suspect. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr Bola Longe, confirmed the incident. Longe added that medical examination revealed that one of the girls was pregnant, adding that the case was under investigation at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Lafia. Umaru told PUNCH Metro he was in love with the pregnant girl and planned to marry her. According to him, the parents of the 14-year-old are aware of their relationship. Also, a 20-year-old man, Kehinde Oke, has been remanded in prison for allegedly raping a 55-year-old woman and robbing a man of his valuables. READ ALSO: Two ex-convicts arrested for Lagos traffic robbery Oke was taken before an Ado Ekiti Chief Magistrate’s Court by the police in Ekiti State on two counts of rape and robbery. The police prosecutor, Inspector Caleb Leramo, told the court on Friday that the defendant allegedly went to the residence of one Professor Michael Ige at night, stole his laptop, phones and vandalised his cars, all valued at N1m. The prosecutor alleged that “the defendant committed the offence on or about December 22, 2019, at Emure-Ekiti in Ekiti State”. Leramo alleged that “after the robbery, the defendant went to rape a 55-year-old woman.” “The defendant was recently arrested for another case of robbery and some of the properties of the professor were found in his custody during investigations,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 