Daniels Igoni The Chairman of the Bayelsa State Civil Service Commission, Dr Peter Singabele, said the commission uncovered fake appointment letters in the state civil service. Singabele, who said this in Yenagoa, the state capital, after receiving the report of the committee on the verification of appointment letters in the state workforce, said the government had smashed the employment racketeering syndicate made up of civil servants. The panel was set up following reports of the sale of employment letters by a syndicate during the “employment of 3,281 civil servants between August 2018 and January 2020” by the administration of former governor Seriake Dickson. Singabele said such fraudulent acts constituted an act of “serious misconduct” against the public service rules and such culprits and workers who entered the civil service through the back door would be sanctioned appropriately. He also stated that two civil service commission workers were discovered to be part of the employment scam and handed over to the committee. Singabele, who stated that about 600 would soon face the panel, said the fake employment syndicate scanned the signatures of Dickson and the commission’s permanent secretary as well as forging the commission’s letterhead. He said, “Certainly, it is clear that there is a scam and there is a syndicate, maybe one or two syndicates that are working. And one of the clear points which we have highlighted here is the case of one man issuing appointment letters from a church. His matter has been handled by the panel. “Also, some persons have scanned the signature of the former governor (Dickson); they stamp it on some papers to make them look authentic. “We have also discovered that one or two persons in the state treasury may be involved. Otherwise, how does somebody with a fake appointment letter get into the payroll of the state?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com