The Securities and Exchange Commission has expressed its desire to automate its processes in a bid to conform to current global technological trends as well as ensure a more efficient capital market. The Director-General, SEC, Mr Lamido Yuguda, who stated this during a meeting with the Minister for Communication and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami in Abuja, on Monday, said automating most of the commission’s processes would also make the capital market more friendly to investors. Yuguda said, “Presently, we have a lot of documents and papers being brought to the commission for one approval or the other. We think that if we can digitalise our processes and these documents are transmitted to us electronically, it will make it easier for the market that we regulate and also stimulate growth. “If we can achieve that, it will also reduce cost and increase efficiency. That is why we are here today to discuss with you on areas we can work together to achieve this. The SEC boss stated that the advent of COVID-19 had shown what could be achieved with technology, adding that since March, the capital market had been working in spite of lockdowns and effects of the pandemic. He said, “Remember that when the lockdown started, the commission activated its business continuity process which saw members of staff of the commission working remotely while all our electronic channels remain open to provide the necessary support to capital market stakeholders. “They should also continue to disclose the trend and outlook for the company, and updates on implementation of business continuity plans. Public companies are to publish these disclosures on their websites and on other relevant media. “We also told public companies who plan to conduct AGMs to ensure that the conduct of the meetings comply with the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, the Investments and Securities Act, the SEC rules and regulations as well as relevant government and health guidelines issued in this regard.” The SEC DG stated that the commission would continue to engage and collaborate with all stakeholders to ensure that the capital market remained resilient. In his remarks, Pantami expressed the readiness of his team to collaborate with the SEC in automating its processes, adding that the present administration was committed to promoting a digital economy. He said “With this lockdown, we have seen the advantages of digitalisation of processes, that is what has kept us going when everyone was locked down in their homes. We are currently at the forefront of promoting digital economy. “We are very happy to look into areas that we can assist in digitalising your activities to ensure a better capital market. Digitalisation will certainly make processes easier and that is why we are championing it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 