Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government is committed to facilitating a private sector-driven process of inclusive and participatory national development plans, the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, has said. Agba spoke on Tuesday during the virtual inauguration of the Central Working Group for the development of Nigeria Agenda 2050 and the Medium Term National Development Plans of 2021-2025 and 2026-2030. The CWG is chaired by a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and Special Adviser to the President on Finance and Economy, Sarah Alade. The Special Adviser to the President on Economic Matters, Office of the Vice President, Adeyemi Dipeolu, is the Deputy Chairman. Agba said the initiative would be a truly national development plan led by the organised private sector and enabled by government. He was quoted in a statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday by his Special Assistant, Sufuyan Ojeifo, as saying, “The planning process will be inclusive and participatory with the full involvement of the sub-nationals (state and local governments). “It will include three major political parties, the National Assembly, youth and women organisations, the physically-challenged and other relevant stakeholders.” He said the governance structure had three levels with technical working groups as the base where all technical works would be carried out before escalation to the CWG. “At the top is the steering committee, which has oversight on all the planning process and this is chaired by Mr Atedo Peterside and co-chaired by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed,” the minister stated Agba explained that the initiatives were designed to be successor plans to Nigeria’s Vision 20:2020 and the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan 2017-2020. He said the plans were to address development challenges in all aspects of the country’s national life within the agreed time-frame. The minister stated that the CWG would, among other terms of reference, coordinate sectoral approaches to highlight cross-cutting interventions for joint implementation. “The adopted approach must address anticipated challenges of preparing an evidence based national development plan and long term vision document and make recommendations to the minister for implementation,” Agba stated. He tasked the CWG to produce and submit final draft of the MTNDP 2021-2025 to the steering committee not later than September 30. Agba said the CWG should submit the second MTNDP 2026-2030 in February 2021, while the final report for the Nigeria Agenda 2050 should be submitted in July 2021. Responding, Alade expressed the commitment of the group to deliver a well-articulated national plan for the stability of the Nigerian economy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  