Deji Lambo Personnel of the Lagos State Police Command have recovered the remains of a yet-to-be-identified woman on Idera Estate, in the Odogunyan area of Ikorodu, Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the victim was on her way to a destination in the area when she suddenly slumped and fell on the ground. She was said to have died a few minutes afterwards, as her remains were abandoned on the road. A resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said when the Sagamu Road Police Station was informed, some policemen were mobilised to the scene to take the corpse to a mortuary. He stated that the police searched the victim’s belongings, but found no means of identification to trace her family members. The source said, “From what I gathered, the woman was on her way to a place in the area when she slumped. As she fell on the ground, she died. “We don’t know her in this community, but she wore white garment clothes. No one knows where she was going to and there was no means of identification, no address or mobile phone to enable us to trace or call her family members to inform them about what happened. “I saw the policemen searching her bag to see if they could get anything; but they found nothing. And when it was getting late, the police took her corpse to the mortuary.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said one Remi Bolatito informed the command about the incident, adding that no mark of violence was found on the woman’s remains. He stated that members of the nearest white garment church were contacted, but no one claimed to know her. Elkana said, “On June 24, 2020, around 11.40pm, the police gathered through one Remi Bolatito of Agbede Road, in Odogunyan, Ikorodu, Lagos, that a young lady in a white garment was found lying down dead at Rofo Junction of Odogunyan. Our personnel visited the scene and on close observation discovered that there was no mark of violence on her body. “The nearest white garment church was contacted and the members denied knowing her. Also, no identity card or phone was found on her to enable us to contact her family. We removed the corpse from the premises and deposited it at the Ikorodu General Hospital’s mortuary for autopsy. Investigation is in progress and further development will be communicated.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 