John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party has described the All Progressives Congress as the headquarters of corruption. It also said it has uncovered an alleged plot by the APC to stall ongoing probes into various acts of corruption under the current regime. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘NDDC: You Are the Headquarters of Corruption PDP Replies APC… Exposes APC’s Plot to Stall Corruption Probes,’ signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, on Wednesday. The PDP said this in response to an earlier statement titled, ‘PDP Dead Scared of NDDC 19-Year Forensic Audit, Legislative Inquest-APC,’  issued by the APC on Tuesday. Ologbondiyan said, “The stench of corruption oozing out of the Buhari administration has further confirmed that the All Progressives Congress is the headquarters of corruption as well as the dockyard of thieves, treasury looters, and oppressive cabal who have stolen our nation dry. “The APC has been seeking to frustrate on-going probes in government agencies because its leaders are complicit and all soiled, from head to toe, in the mire of corruption.” He said APC’s attack on the PDP following its demand that APC leaders indicted in the Niger Delta Development Commission probe should be prosecuted, was evidence that the APC was desperate to cover up the sleaze. The PDP spokesperson also said it was now evident that under this regime, no government agency is safe from “the pillaging fingers of the APC.” The statement challenged the APC to address the corruption at the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund where “their leaders and cronies have been fingered in alleged involvement of looting of about N4.448bn through underhand contracts.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    