Dayo Ojerinde The Lagos State chapter of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria has urged the Lagos State Government to strengthen the health system in the state as well as to recognise community pharmacies as primary care centres. In a communiqué issued at the end of its 2020 Annual Summit, the Lagos chapter of PSN urged the Lagos State Government to reconstitute its Primary Healthcare Board to include representatives of PSN, Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria and Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria. The communiqué issued on Tuesday was signed by the Chairman, PSN, Lagos State, Mr Gbolagade Iyiola. “The Lagos State Government must initiate formal recognition of community pharmacies as primary care centres which will debut in immunisation services, ante-natal clinics, family planning, health promotion, acute care management, first-aid services, health and wellness services and overall patient empowerment. “Government at all levels must begin to invest significantly into Primary Healthcare with emphasis on preventive therapy through maximum engagement of environmental health officers. It is a statement of fact that government at all levels must tinker with their budgets to feature preventive care therapy at the expense of curative therapy. “Government at all levels must create the atmosphere for health reforms which will focus on maximising the potentials of its workforce. Health care is a globally inclined endeavour driven by international best practice. This is why each health professional specialises all over the world,” the communiqué reads in part. The Lagos PSN also urged the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to provide unhindered access of training facilities to all health workers in training at undergraduate and post-graduate levels. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 