Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The National Assembly Service Commission has appointed new clerks for the National Assembly. Replacing Mohammed Sani-Omolori is Ojo Amos Olatunde as Acting Clerk to the National Assembly. Others appointments are Bala Yabani Mohammed as Acting Deputy Clerk, National Assembly; Dauda Ibrahim El-Ladan Acting Clerk, Senate; Patrick Giwa to remain Clerk, House of Representatives pending his retirement in November, 2020; Yusuf Asir Danbatta, Acting Secretary to the NASC. Chairman of the NASC, Ahmed Amshi, in a statement issued on Friday, said the appointments take immediate effect. [READ ALSO] Murder: Gokada founder’s ex-PA arrested The statement partly read, “Pursuant to its mandate as provided in the National Assembly Service Act 2014 (as amended), Section 6(b) which states, “…appoint persons to hold or act in the offices of Clerk to the National Assembly, the Deputy Clerk to the National Assembly, Clerk of the Senate, Clerk of the House of Representatives, Deputy Clerk of the Senate, Deputy Clerk of House of Representatives, secretaries to directorates, and holders of other offices that shall be created by the commission on the recommendation of the Clerk to the National Assembly.” “The National Assembly Service Commission, at an emergency meeting held today, Friday, 17th July, 2020, has approved the appointments of some senior management staff for the service. “All appointments are with immediate effect.” The NASC had on Thursday queried Sani-Omolori for insubordination. Amshi, in the query, referred to a statement issued by the former Clerk to dismiss the earlier one issued by the commission to announce his retirement from service. Sani-Omolori, who was asked to reply the query within 24 hours, had acknowledged its receipt and said he would respond to it “accordingly.” Another round of crisis had begun over the retirement of the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori and over 150 senior management staff members of the parliament. Chairman of the NASC had earlier on Wednesday announced the retirement of workers who are due for exit, in a statement, entitled, ‘The National Assembly Service Commission Approves the Retirement Age for the Staff of the National Assembly as 35 Years of Service or 60 Years of Age, Whichever Comes First.’ The Clerk had, however, dismissed that retirement as illegal. He had issued a statement shortly after, entitled, ‘Retirement Age for Staff of the National Assembly is 40 Years of Service or 65 Years of Age, Whichever Comes First.’ 