Sunday Aborisade, Chukwudi Akasike and Leke Baiyewu The House of Representatives has resolved to sue the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, for alleged perjury and defamation of the parliament. Akpabio had on Monday, while appearing before the House Committee on the Niger Delta Development Commission at an investigative hearing on the alleged illegal spending and mismanagement by the NDDC, alleged that members of the National Assembly got 60 per cent of contracts from the commission. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, with the leave of the House, on Tuesday, had asked the minister to provide details of the contracts between 24 hours and 48 hours. At the opening of plenary on Thursday, Gbajabiamila announced that Akpabio failed to meet the ultimatum to prove his allegation. The Speaker said he had consequently asked the Clerk to the House, Patrick Giwa, to meet the lawyers on the legal action to be taken against the minister. Gbajabiamila said, “Last Tuesday, I issued a 48-hour ultimatum to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs to substantiate his allegation that over 60 per cent of contracts awarded by the NDDC went to members of the National Assembly. I said then that the minister owed it to himself and the country to provide evidence to support these serious allegations. “The minister has failed to respond to my request. Therefore, I must conclude that his statement was intended solely to gaslight the nation to avoid accountability for the evident maladministration and malfeasance in the NDDC. “This morning, I asked the Clerk of the House to engage the services of legal counsel and instruct them to initiate a criminal complaint of perjury against the minister. At the same time, we will instruct the counsel to explore the possibility of a civil defamation suit against the minister.” READ ALSO: Reps to probe North-East agency over missing N100bn About one hour later, the Speaker announced that Akpabio had replied the House and recanted the claim. In a letter read out by Gbajabiamila, the minister said, “I never referred to members of the 9th House of Representatives as beneficiaries of the NDDC contracts, as the NDDC is yet to fully implement any budget since the commencement of the 9th National Assembly.” Akpabio said the Executive Director, Projects, NDDC, Dr Cairo Ojougboh, forwarded to him 19 old contracts amounting to N9bn, which the Chairman of the House Committee on the NDDC, Mr Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, insisted that the IMC must pay for. The minister stated, “As a former Minority Leader of the 8th Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I shall forever hold the ideals of the National Assembly and will not make the entire document public, which I got from the lead forensic auditor in confidence. “As to the reference to 60 per cent of contracts, the investigative committee refused and neglected to give me (an) opportunity to explain that I was responding to a question by a member of the committee. Permit me to explain that any reference to 60 per cent during the investigative hearing was in answer to a question by a member of the committee as to whether or not a medical doctor could act as executive director, projects, which I answered in (the) affirmative and that the greatest project in the world today is COVID-19, which is medical in nature. House probes Nunieh’s house invasion The House, also on Thursday, resolved to investigate the invasion and the siege laid to the home of the former acting Managing Director of the NDDC, Dr Joi Nunieh, by men of the Nigeria Police. At the plenary, the Deputy Chief Whip, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha; and Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu, jointly moved a motion titled: ‘Need to Investigate the Remote Causes of Police Invasion of the Former Acting Managing Director of NDDC, Dr Joi Nunieh’s Residence on Friday, 16 June, 2020’. ‘Appoint amnesty programme coordinator’ In another development, the House has called for the appointment of a substantive coordinator for the Presidential Amnesty Programme. The House, on Thursday, adopted a motion moved by Mr Preye Oseke, titled, ‘Urgent Need to Appoint a Substantive Coordinator for the Presidential Amnesty Programme for the Niger Delta Region’. Following the adoption, the House mandated its Committee on National Security and Intelligence to interface with relevant agencies of government in ensuring that a substantive coordinator for the PAP was “urgently appointed in order to douse the already growing tension in the region.” Panel indicts IMC, recommends Ojuogboh’s sacking Meanwhile, the House Committee on the NDDC has indicted the commission’s Interim Management Committee after its investigation of alleged extra-budgetary spending and mismanagement of funds. The committee recommended members of the IMC for prosecution by anti-corruption agencies for alleged breach of financial regulations. At the plenary on Thursday, the committee laid its report on the probe, but the House stepped down its consideration for a review. The Chairman of the committee, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, who excused himself from the probe based on the demand of the IMC, laid the report. Both the Senate and the House had on May 5, 2020, separately resolved to investigate the alleged spending of over N40bn by the Expanded Interim Management Committee of the NDDC between October 2019 and May 2020 without approval. It was later discovered that the NDDC had spent N81.5bn by June 2020. The committee recommended that “these gross violations should be reported to the anti-graft agencies for further investigation, prosecution and recovery.” “The total sum made to the acting Managing Director (Prof. Daniel Pondei), the executive directors and other directors of the NDDC to attend overseas graduation be refunded, and failure to do so immediately, the anti-graft agencies should commence investigation, prosecution and recovery,” the committee recommended. The panel also recommended that Ojuogboh should be sacked as director of projects, being a medical practitioner and not an engineer. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Courts shun AGF Malami, begin annual vacation It said, “Based on Sections 12(1) and 12(1)(a) of the NDDC Act 2000, Dr Cairo Godson Ojuogboh is unqualified and unfit to occupy the office of Executive Director, Projects, NDDC, and should be discharged forthwith from that position and all affected employees recalled.” It also said the monitoring and advisory bodies of the agency, which was recognised by the Act that established the NDDC, should be inaugurated immediately. It noted that Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs had no capacity to supervise the forensic audit and therefore demanded that the Auditor-General for the Federation should take full charge of the exercise for transparency and efficiency. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said the report would be submitted to the President, who “is eagerly expecting it.” Meanwhile, A civil society organisation, the Centre for Leadership and Justice, has called for the dissolution of the Interim Management Committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission over allegations of mismanagement of funds meant for the development of the Niger Delta region. The President of the group, Emmanuel Umohinyang, also expressed disappointment in the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, for failing to wield the big stick when it became obvious that the NDDC management was derailing from its objective. Umohinyang explained in an interview with one of our correspondents that with the controversies surrounding the management of funds by the IMC, the committee did not deserve to continue to preside over the agency. Umohinyang, who is the Convener, Re-elect Buhari, and currently an aide to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), warned that the NDDC might be scrapped if the people refused to fight for its survival. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 