John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party has raised concerns over the integrity of the ongoing probe of the suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, by the Ayo Salami-led Presidential Panel. The party said its concerns stemmed from an alleged boast by Magu’s legal counsel, Wahab Shittu, that his client would be cleared of allegations against him and reinstated. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘Fraud Allegations: PDP Tasks Presidential Panel over Magu’s Boast of Reinstatement,’ signed by the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, on Friday. The statement read in part, “The boast by the suspended acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, that he would be cleared and reinstated despite the allegations against him is a huge affront on the integrity of the ongoing inquest by the Justice Ayo Salami-led Presidential Investigative Panel on the activities of the EFCC. “Nigerians were shocked when the counsel for the suspended EFCC acting Chairman, Wahab Shittu, boastfully declared that he had Magu’s instruction to inform the public that ‘he will be reinstated back to the office.” He said, “Our party hopes that this is not a case of corruption fighting back in a frantic effort to shield accused persons from prosecution.”  “Already, the statement by Magu’s counsel has heightened public concerns that the probe has become a sham and that the allegations against Magu will eventually be swept under the carpet despite demands by Nigerians to prosecute the suspended EFCC boss in a court of competent jurisdiction.“ The party wondered if Magu’s counsel was now informing Nigerians that the activities of the Presidential Panel, as well as the indicting memo by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, are all part of an orchestrated drama to facilitate Magu’s clearance at the Senate. The PDP noted that the details of the allegations by the Attorney General of the Federation against Magu were in the public domain, including the alleged discrepancy in the financial records of the EFCC funds, alleged stealing of funds recovered by the commission, alleged sale of property recovered by the EFCC, details of alleged acts of insubordination, among others. This, the party said, was in addition to issues of the alleged violation of rules, abuse of investigation processes, manipulation of court procedures by the EFCC under Magu, which has allegedly become a partisan vehicle for persecution, harassment, and extortion against innocent Nigerians. The PDP equally said there were also allegations that the EFCC under Magu was more interested in securing convictions and not justice; for which innocent citizens were harassed with trumped-up charges, denied bail, allegedly made to make a statement in custody without the services of their lawyers and convicted on media trial even before being allowed to defend themselves in court. Ologbondiyan said the statement by Magu, through his counsel, was, therefore, a direct slap on the integrity of our justice system and the fight against corruption in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com