Samson Folarin No fewer than seven members of the Peoples Democratic Party have reportedly indicated interest in contesting in a by-election to fill the Lagos East Senatorial District seat at the Senate. It was also learnt that some members of the ruling All Progressives Congress had also thrown their hats in the ring, though a candidate favoured by the national body could be chosen. The former occupant of the position, Bayo Osinowo, died last month after a brief illness said to be connected with COVID-19. According to the law, the Independent National Electoral Commission has 90 days to conduct a by-election after the National Assembly declares the position vacant. Our correspondent learnt that the leading aspirants included a former governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party, Babatunde Gbadamosi; the last PDP flag bearer for the position, Princess Abiodun Oyefusi; a public relations expert, Adedipe Shobajo, among others. The spokesperson for the Lagos PDP, Taofik Ganiu, said his party would ensure it fielded the best candidate. He said, “What is operating in PDP Lagos now is that we are set for any election. For the Lagos Senatorial District By-election, we want to field our strongest candidate who will not be rejected by Lagosians. There are seven aspirants already. “We are aware that the APC national body is endorsing somebody and other aspirants are aggrieved. So, our doors are wide open for them to take advantage of it. [READ ALSO] Resumption: Many airlines not ready, says NCAA “They will, however, go through the same primary like other aspirants. There will be a level playing field for everyone. If they are good enough, they will claim the ticket.” Ganiu said the greatest asset of his party was its plan to end godfatherism in Lagos, adding that the coming by-election would be an opportunity for the PDP to showcase its best hands and claim the state in the 2023 general elections. However, the APC spokesperson, Seye Oladejo, said the public should disregard the names of members of the party said to be aspirants for the by-election. He noted that the party was still mourning the death of Osinowo, aka Pepper, and no one was talking about replacing him at the Senate. He said, “At the level of the party, nothing is happening now. It’s barely two weeks that we lost Pepper. Humanity should come into play here irrespective of anybody’s ambition. So, nothing is happening, either officially or unofficially. But people are free to speculate or have ambitions for whatever reasons. “But I can tell you that it’s going to be in the public domain when the time is right; it will not be hidden. It will not be a subject for speculation or rumour.”