Peter David, Benin City No fewer than 100 members of the Action Democratic Party in Edo State, including its executive members, have defected to the Peoples Democratic Party ahead of the September 19 governorship election in the state. The state Organising Secretary of the ADP, Mr Oshodin Izedomwen, who led the defectors, said they decided to join the PDP because of its capacity as well as the sterling qualities of Governor Godwin Obaseki. The ADP defectors are from Egor, Ovia South West, and Ovia North-East local government areas of the state. However, the state Chairman of the ADP, Mr Chris Nehikhare, said, “The ADP has not collapsed its structure. My attention has just been drawn to the release by the PDP on the purported dissolution of ADP into PDP. “To put the records straight, some of our members in Egor LGA decamped to PDP yesterday 6th June, 2020. This is being expected especially as an election approaches its high point. The party remains intact and going on with our candidate and nothing has changed. ADP remains the party to watch and by extension to beat.” However, Izedomwen said he was a founding member of the PDP, adding that he left the party because of some persons, whom he described as “strange bedfellows” who came to join the PDP. He said he and other members of the ADP found it convenient to return to the PDP because the strange fellows had left. Receiving the defectors, the state Chairman of the PDP, Dr Tony Aziegbemi, said he was excited not only because of the calibre of persons joining the party, but also because of their enthusiasm. He promised that the party would treat those who just joined its fold fairly, while urging them to work towards the victory of the party in the September governorship election. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    