Angela Onwuzoo Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Prof. Wasiu Adeyemo, says oxygen is critical in the management and survival of patients with severe cases of COVID-19. Prof. Adeyemo said the Federal Government-owned tertiary hospital managed a COVID-19 patient with severe case of infection who consumed over 60 big cylinders of oxygen in the course of treatment that lasted over three weeks. Adeyemo said the patient’s infection had taken a turn for the worse after she was delivered of a baby via Caesarean Section. He maintained that the recovery of critically ill patients with COVID-19 required oxygen. Evidence shows that oxygen saves lives and its provision is a critical component of emergency respiratory resuscitation around the world, hence its inclusion in the World Health Organisation’s list of essential medicines. Medical oxygen, according to experts, is a key treatment for severe pneumonia, malaria, sepsis and meningitis. Speaking in an exclusive interview with PUNCH HealthWise, Adeyemo said patients with severe cases of COVID-19 and co-morbidities need oxygen more to survive. “Respiratory disease essentially requires oxygen when it is getting severe. It is absolute. So, it is important for patients with COVID-19 to be at the hospital early, so that whenever they require oxygen, it can be given to them. They really need oxygen to survive. “Patients with COVID-19 and co-morbidities [such as high blood pressure, cancer, diabetes, asthma or HIV] are very severe cases and they require oxygen to survive and must come to the hospital for treatment. So, it should not be taken lightly,” he counselled. Providing insights into the case of the new mother, Adeyemo revealed, “We had a case of patient with COVID-19 who delivered through Caesarean Section in our facility and after the delivery, she needed to be on oxygen for a long time — for a period of three weeks. “She consumed over 60 big cylinders of oxygen because of a disease in her lung. That was a special case,” he said. The LUTH CMAC noted that COVID-19 is a lung disease. “It is a respiratory disease. If a person had a disease in the lung before COVID-19, that person will likely not survive, compared to those who don’t. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 