How prepared is the APC for the local government election, which is expected to hold before the end of the year, bearing in mind the seeming tussle between the Ilerioluwa and Oranmiyan groups within the party? The party is as strong as it used to be. The little misunderstanding within the party will not affect the preparations for the local government election. We are getting ready and we look forward to a very good outing for the party. The mode the election will take is also causing disaffection in the party. Some supporters of ex-governor Rauf Aregbesola want the parliamentary system retained, while some followers of the incumbent governor are pushing for the presidential system. What is the party doing to manage this? The party will take the decision at the appropriate time but, as for me, there is no system that is perfect. We will try as much as possible to get the mind and the interest of the people as a democratic party. We will view their opinions and the popularity of their opinion will carry the day.  As I said earlier, there is no system of government that doesn’t have its challenges. In England, the parliamentary system of government is perfectly practised; in the United States, the presidential system is perfectly practised; whereas in China, the one-party system is perfectly practised too. It depends on the brains and calibre of the people that are running the system.  I think that is the area the party is focusing its attention; to seek people with great and wide understanding that can actualise whichever system we choose to adopt. Despite the claims by both leaders that there is no disagreement between them, there are indications that the Osun APC is still divided between Oyetola’s and Aregbesola’s camps. What is your take? Your questions seem to be dividing the party.   Even twin brothers from the same mother will have different ways of reacting to issues but the fact that they react to issues differently does not mean they are not from the same mother. But there was an incident recently in Modakeke where an aide of the former governor was alleged to have led suspected thugs to disrupt an event organised by the supporters of the incumbent. What is your take on this? It’s an allegation that has yet to be proved. The party is looking into it and we will get to the bottom of it. But there is no division or crisis in the Osun APC. What are you doing to ensure that the opposition parties, especially the Peoples Democratic Party, partake in the forthcoming local government election in the state? I can’t speak for the opposition. The road is clear enough for them to see and the choice is theirs. I can only speak for my party. But they are claiming that they are not so sure your party will be fair to them in the poll. Let them participate first and see the results. As much as possible, we have been fair to them in all elections. I don’t know what made them say that. But if they are afraid that we won’t be fair to them, how about the internal affairs of their party?  Are they fair to themselves? Those people have nothing to offer; all they are doing is character assassination. As a leader of the party in power, are you not concerned that the internal crisis within the main opposition party could eventually constitute a security threat to the state? They can’t constitute a security threat to the state. We are watching them; I know they have an internal crisis like any other political party but I think they will not cross the red line and tolerance level. The opposition party is calling for the probe of ex-governor Rauf Aregbesola’s administration. What is your take on this? If they are not comfortable with what Aregbesola achieved while in office, the people of Osun are comfortable with it. The people of Osun are not complaining. If the opposition party members are complaining, let them come out with their claims of complaint. It is not enough for you to say you want to probe; you need to speak about the aspect you want investigated? All we want to give to the admiration of the people of the state is still ongoing and our development for the past eight years is unsurpassed. So it’s left for them. That’s their cup of tea. Many APC members are complaining that there is a delay in appointments. They believe they worked for the party and have not been rewarded. Are you aware of this? Yes, appointment is an ongoing thing. We did one recently and we are doing another one very soon.  It is not something we can do in a hurry. It is something that is supposed to be planned well and we also have to look at the financial strength of the state. We are taking it one step at a time and those people that have yet to be appointed will get their own very soon. They should relax and bear with us. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com