Temiloluwa O’Peters The Lagos State Government has warned property owners and developers in Lekki, Ajah and Eti-Osa not to violate the master plan for the area, The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, gave the warning on Thursday at a stakeholders’ meeting with property owners and developers in the Lekki axis on seamless processing of planning permit, according to a statement by the Assistant Director, Public Affairs, Mukaila Sanusi. Salako said owners and developers of properties in the area must ensure voluntary compliance to the master plan for that location. He explained that it was by doing so that the sanctity of the revised Ikoyi/Victoria Island Model City Plan and Lekki Comprehensive Master Plan could be guaranteed, being the operative development plan, covering the area. “Consequently, you are to please note that the approval orders of the plans, as applicable, remain the only valid references for any developmental activity that can be carried out in this area until another review is conducted,” he said. He warned that any act of deliberate contravention of the approval orders, extant law and regulations must stop, saying the ministry would not allow the ugly trend of haphazard and illegal development to continue unabated. Salako called for the cessation of illegal dealings concerning the authorisation and documentation of buildings, saying the sanctions to be imposed include demolition and prosecution. The commissioner said the observed underhand deals in respect of building construction included non-adherence to planning permit, deliberate falsehood in the design drawings and construction of buildings after submission, prior to the grant of planning permit and the mandatory stage certification. He said, “Others are falsification of documents such as mandatory statutory clearances, payment receipts and LIRS tax clearance as well as fake approvals in connivance with third parties, some of whom are staff members of the ministry illegally engaged to provide ‘administrative protection’ instead of dealing with us directly through our formal channels.” He described the sharp practices as criminal offences liable for prosecution. Salako said, “This meeting is another golden opportunity for you to right the wrongs that had been done in order to avoid serious public embarrassment which the statutory enforcements may cause you and your distinguished personalities. “In this regard, you are enjoined to always endeavour to comply with all statutory requirements for the construction of your building, including obtaining planning permit from the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority and stage certification from the Lagos State Building Control Agency.” He said the ministry would endeavour to continue efforts to accelerate and intensify continuous public enlightenment and advocacy for the achievement of the ‘THEMES Agenda’ of the state government. The Chairman, Lagos Inland Revenue Service, Mr Hamzat Subair, said it was part of LIRS’ mandate to make income tax assessment on applications for planning permit, adding that the essence of taxation was to finance development. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 