Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has requested the approval of the Senate for the confirmation of a former minister during the Goodluck Jonathan administration, Mr. Ademola Seriki, and 41 other ambassadorial nominees. Seriki served in the former president Jonathan’s administration as the minister of state for Defence. While one of the nominees from the Federal Capital Territory was appointed as career ambassador, the rest were non-ambassadorial nominees. Some of the non-career ones are two journalists, Messrs Debo Adesina (Oyo) and Oma Djebah (Delta) The list also included Dare Awoniyi (Kogi), who is the son of the late Sunday Awoniyi, former Chairman of the Arewa Consultative Forum. A careful observation of the list indicated that three states, (Kwara, Kano, Oyo) have three nominees each while three others, (Borno, Benue, Adamawa), got two slots each. Twenty states had one slot each while four states had no nominee. The full list is as follows, Umar Suleiman (Adamawa); L.S. Mandama (Adamawa); Oboro Effiong Akpabio (Akwa Ibom); Chief Elejah Onyeagba (Anambra); Abubakar D. Ibrahim Siyi (Bauchi); Philip K. Ikurusi (Bayelsa); Tarzcor Terhemen (Benue); Paul Oga Adikwu (Benue); Al-Bishir Ibrahim Al-Hussain (Borno); Brig Gen. Bwala Yusuf Bukar (Borno); Prof. Monique Ekpong (Cross River); Oma Djebah (Delta); Ominyi N. Eze, Ebonyi (Ebonyi); Yamah Mohammed Musa (Edo); Maj. Gen. C. O. Ugwu (Enugu); and Dr. Hajara I. Salim (Gombe). READ ALSO: Wanted ex-NSITF boss, Olejeme, to forfeit 48 property Others are: Obiezu Ijeoma Chinyerem (Imo); Ali M. Magashi (Jigawa); Prof. M. A. Makarfi (Kaduna); Hamisu Umar Takalmawa (Kano); Imam Galandanci (Kano); Amina Ado Kurawa (Kano); Amb. Yahaya Lawal (Katsina); Dare Sunday Awoniyi (Kogi); Ibrahim Kayode Laaro (Kwara), Abioye Bello (Kwara); Zara Maazu Umar (Kwara); Ademola Seriki (Lagos);  Henry John Omaku (Nasarawa); Chief Sarafa Tunji Ishola (Ogun); Mrs. Nimi Akinkugbe (Ondo); Adejare Bello (Osun); Adeshina Alege (Oyo); Debo Adesina (Oyo); Ms. Folakemi Akinyele (Oyo); Shehu Abdullahi Yibaikwai (Plateau); Maureen Tamuno (Rivers); Faruk Yabo (Sokoto);  Adamu M. Hassan (Taraba); Alhaji Yusuf Mohammed (Yobe); Abubakar Moriki (Zamfara). In a related development, President Buhari requested the upper chamber to confirm the appointment of Usman Hassan as Commissioner representing Kaduna State in the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com