Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested three suspected land-grabbers, who allegedly shot at seven workers at a construction site in the state. The Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. Oyeyemi said the suspects had been terrorising the residents of Ota and its environs before they were apprehended on Monday. He said the suspects, Rufai Abdulkareem, Tobi Ajayi and Wasiu Oladipupo, were arrested following a distress call by residents of the Owolabi Estate in Ota, Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state. Oyeyemi explained that the police Area Commander, Ota, received a distress call that some hoodlums, numbering about 10 and operating on motorcycles, invaded the estate. He added that the police were told that the land-grabbers were armed and shooting at the residents of the area.  Oyeyemi said, “Consequently, seven among the workers at the site sustained varying degrees of gunshot injury. “Upon the distress call, the Area Commander, Ota, ACP Monday Agbonnika, quickly mobilised his Anti-Robbery Squad men and moved to the scene. “On sighting the policemen, the hoodlums took to their heels, but three of them were arrested, while the others escaped.” The PPRO added that items recovered from the suspects included one locally-made single-barrelled pistol, three live cartridges and two expended cartridges. He said the injured workers had been taken to the General Hospital, Ota, for medical attention. Oyeyemi said the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had directed that the suspects be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation. He added that the CP also ordered that the leader of the gang, identified as Joseph Ayodele, be hunted down and brought to justice. “The CP assured members of the public that the suspects will be charged in accordance with the anti-land grabbing laws of Ogun State as soon as investigation is concluded,” Oyeyemi stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 