Jesusegun Alagbe The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has threatened to expel or suspend any member behind the court case against the National Caretaker Committee led by Yobe State Governor, Mai-Mala Buni. In a letter on Friday signed by the state APC Chairman, Mr Tunde Balogun, the party reacted to a purported suit filed by a party member in the state at a Federal High Court against the party’s NCC. The NCC was inaugurated on June 25 by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), after the dissolution of the National Working Committee, led by an ex-APC chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Buni was subsequently appointed as the Chairman of the party’s caretaker committee/extraordinary convention committee, while Buhari warned all party members with litigations against the party to discontinue their cases. However, an APC member in Lagos State, Chief Lateef Arigbaruwo, reportedly filed a suit before a Federal High Court in the state seeking to dissolve the caretaker committee. The suit, with number FHC/L/CS/789/2020, faulted the NEC meeting of the party held on June 25. But reacting to the development, the state APC chairman, warned that the party would sanction any member who filed the suit. Balogun said, “We believe the person who instituted the suit is not a member of our party because it is highly doubtful that a bona fide member of the APC in Lagos in good standing would initiate such an action. We will, however, investigate the matter. “Here, I want to reiterate the stance of the APC in Lagos. No party member should file a court action regarding the recent National Executive Committee meeting of the party in Abuja, particularly if that person has not even sought to initiate internal conflict resolution processes to resolve any dispute they may have with the NEC decisions. “Filing any such legal action is clearly against the spirit and letter of the party constitution, which prohibits legal action before a member exhausts all internal resolution mechanisms. Our resolve against the institution of any court case by any member is in consonance with the constitution of the party.” Balogun urged the party member involved in the suit to withdraw it, saying it was an act of indiscipline that could cause confusion and disunity in the party. “Failure to do so will subject that party member to sanctions enumerated in the constitution, which may include suspension or expulsion,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com