Ifeoluwa Oyerinde A businesswoman, Olabisi Lawal, has been allegedly assaulted by four porters in the Arepo area of Ogun State. PUNCH Metro learnt that Olabisi was assaulted alongside her husband, Abey, and his brothers on July 12, 2020, under the Arepo Bridge. It was gathered that Olabisi’s husband was driving out of an estate in the area when he noticed that a car had broken down under the bridge. Our correspondent learnt that when Abey attempted to reverse his vehicle, he heard a sound and when he attempted to check it, he noticed that it was one of the porters, who hit his car. Olabisi told PUNCH Metro that the porter put up a fight against her husband when he tried to enquire why he hit his vehicle. She said, “We were coming out of the estate when we noticed that the rain and the bad road had caused a vehicle to develop a fault. My husband decided to turn back home and while he was turning, we heard something hit the body of the car and when my husband came down, he found out that it was a porter who hit the car. “He asked the porter why he did that and he started shouting at my husband and before we knew what was happening, picked up a fight with my husband. My husband’s brother came out of the car in an attempt to stop the fight, but another porter came out from nowhere and slapped him and the fight continued. “I begged and tried to calm everyone down but two other porters came out of the darkness and slapped me. They destroyed my phone and my glasses; they also stole my jewellery and injured my brother-in-law. “The fight escalated and the hoodlums under the bridge brought out irons and other weapons and threatened to beat us if we didn’t leave.” An eyewitness, who identified himself simply as Femi, said he was coming out of the estate when he saw some hoodlums assaulting his neighbours. “I saw my neighbours being assaulted by garage men and boys in the rain. It was messed up. While I was trying to intervene and mediate in the fight, one of the boys slapped me,” Femi stated. PUNCH Metro learnt that the couple reported the incident at the Warewa Police Station. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident and said the suspects escaped before the arrival of the police. “When some police personnel went to arrest the suspects, they found out that the suspects had escaped from under the bridge,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 