Friday Olokor The Independent National Electoral Commission says it is set to begin the training of security personnel to tackle electoral offences and the appropriate response to check the trend of vote-buying. The commission said it would deploy the personnel in the governorship election of Edo and Ondo states scheduled for September 19 and October 10, respectively. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, told Sunday PUNCH that, although INEC has sufficient smart card readers for the conduct of off-season and end-of-tenure elections in Edo and Ondo, any shortfall in terms of card readers would be supplemented with the stock from the neighbouring states. Okoye said, “Bribery, inducement and other forms of electoral offences are crimes in Nigeria. The commission will train security personnel in handling electoral offences and the appropriate response. We will also rely on the media and civil society groups to educate our people on the value and sovereign power of the vote. “The commission has a sufficient number of the SCRs for the conduct of both elections. Edo and Ondo elections are off-season and end-of-tenure elections and any shortfall in terms of the SCRs will be supplemented with the stock from the neighbouring states. “The SCRs will be configured close to the election period and the commission will deploy Registration Area Technical Assistants to configure the SCRs and provide technical backup on election day. The SCR is a fundamental component of the commission’s verification and authentication process and the commission will vigorously enforce its application and use during the election.” According to him, by INEC regulations and guidelines, any form of obstruction in the use of the SCR, the refusal to use or deliberate efforts to undermine or dispense with the use of the SCR will attract the record of zero vote from presiding officers with the presumption that voting has taken place in the polling unit. Okoye added, “It will be useless and counterproductive to attempt to undermine its use as the Commission will robustly and courageously deploy and enforce their use.” On the rising tension over the elections, the INEC commissioner noted that INEC was duly informed and taking action. He said, “The National Commissioner supervising Edo and the one supervising Ondo State are on top of the situation. The commission has been receiving updates on the preparations for the conduct of the elections from the Resident Electoral Commissioners of both states. “The commission has also received briefings from the commissioners of police of both states under the aegis of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security. The political parties, the candidates and their supporters are aware that the country is facing a pandemic and that things must be done differently. “The chairman of the commission has made it clear that the commission will not proceed with the election if there is cogent and verifiable threat to lives and properties in the State. The commission will not announce the results of the election if there is breakdown of law and order,” Okoye said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 