An aspirant of the All Progressives Congress in the forthcoming Ondo State governorship primary, Mr Dapo Adelegan shares with PETER DADA his thoughts on the ongoing preparations for the primary and the poll and other issues. How far have you gone talking to people about your ambition? You know we can’t campaign yet until we are formally allowed to do so. What is permitted at this stage is canvassing; selling ourselves to the structures of the party across the three senatorial districts. We do this by speaking to leaders and different interest groups, even non-political structures such as youths, women, civil societies, and so on. What has come from all of these is that our people are greatly dissatisfied with the level of governance that is currently going on in the state. They are pained that the expectations from the current government have not been met. How do you see 10 brothers (aspirants) coming from the same town (Owo) fighting for one position? First, it is an indictment on the governor that 10 of his brothers and sisters have emerged from his town. If he has done well, nobody will emerge. Former Governor Olusegun Mimiko did it for eight years. After the first four years, how many aspirants challenged him from Ondo town? I have not seen my governor in three years and I’m from Owo Local Government Area. With my little national exposure and contacts across the corporate world in Nigeria, and as a former President of the Nigerian British Chamber of Commerce, the only reason my governor has not seen me was because I was supporting somebody else against him. You are a member of the Unity Forum, what is the situation of things in the group? The Unity Forum will continue to exist. It is a pressure group within the APC. It was its attempt to bring a consensus that failed. They now know that you can’t contrive consensus. You can’t call 10 adults with individual aspiration and say go and sit down together in one room, we give you one hour, come with your consensus. Are we kids? We are not kids, many of us did not come out to run because we want to; we have a conviction. Some of us even have divine confirmation of our aspiration to help to rescue Ondo State. So, we have advised them, allow us as aspirants to speak to one another and that has started. In the process, you will see concession, you will see agreement, and before you know it, one or two persons will emerge out of the 10 but that cannot be contrived; and it cannot be forced. That can only be negotiated among the aspirants and I can assure you that the process has started. You and your people in the forum are still rejecting Olusola Oke? Olusola Oke is a leader in the APC. He is qualified to be a governor, but the process that announced him was faulty and I know that, considering his position in the legal firmament of this country and his patriotism for Ondo State, he will not allow that to be the foundation of his emergence. He is working with all of us to ensure that the best aspirant emerges. There is argument on the mode of primaries. What is your view? There is no other primary that will happen except direct primary because that is the only democratic one. Indirect is not democratic. It is open to abuse of money and none of us (contenders) has the kind of money the governor has in his hands. And I thank God our leaders, Senator Ahmed Tinubu and the Presidency, have agreed that it is only one that is democratic. And direct primary is even better because that is an election you do across the 203 wards. The people and leaders across the wards have the right to choose their leader. The governor must be able to subject himself to the scrutiny of the party he emerged through. So any governor who has not managed his party and the leaders well; and he is now looking around and begging for indirect and automatic ticket is a waste of time. It is self-defeatist. You must subject yourself to proper examination and scrutiny. Have you measured up to your promises? Have you developed the party? Have the members of the party enjoyed the benefits of democracy? Have the lives of the Ondo State people improved between the time you came in and now? If it is no, then you drop the baton and let somebody else pick it up. It is nobody’s birthright. There are insinuations that the direct primary as being canvassed is a plot to edge out the governor? It is not the governor’s right to determine what kind of primary that will be used. It is not. It is the National Working Committee of the party that will determine it, even though the states are given the right to choose.  Eighty per cent of APC members in Ondo State are not with Aketi (Akeredolu). They belong to a faction that took a form and did a convention and they have just been reconstituted. They are the real APC members. So, if 80 per cent of the people are not in his exco; and if it is these people that say they want direct primary;  is the National Working Committee going to give them indirect? If Edo State had direct primary, what stops Ondo State from having direct? Will the governor go and force everybody? He cannot. But the state is expected to write the National Working Committee on the mode of primary suitable for the state? The National Working Committee will determine the mode based on the preference of the majority. How will the NWC know the preference of the majority? They are doing their own investigation.  They are talking to the leaders. They are talking to various structures. Even the deaf know that 80 per cent of the APC members are not with Akeredolu. He has not developed the party. He used it and threw the ladder away when he got there. It is not done. Based on what I know and the preponderance of opinions of members of our party in Ondo State, the direct primary is what the people want.  Our leaders have said every governor should go and face direct primary because that is the most democratic form. It is a referendum on the performance of the governor. But the governor has said  he is ready for any mode of primary? How do you know that? Are you a member of his campaign team? He said it. Of course, he is our governor. He has the knife and the yam and don’t forget there is the Almighty God who puts people in power and removes people in power. No man, however, is powerful. Nebuchadnezzar did it in the Bible; he went into the bush for seven years. Nobody can play God on the lives of our people. Our people have suffered for too long and we are saying my brother, you have done well, Pack up and go, allow somebody else with the right skills, human relations, and capacity to deliver. He can’t continue to hold us in bondage and say it must be you or not you. He doesn’t own Ondo State. That is the truth. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com