Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has inaugurated the state health insurance scheme to ensure that residents of the state have direct and unbridled access to quality health care at an affordable price. Fayemi said the SHIS would ensure residents’ continuous access to qualitative and affordable health care services. The governor, who spoke in Ado Ekiti while inaugurating the insurance scheme, said that his administration had also begun renovation of 16 primary healthcare facilities across the state in order to ensure the effectiveness of the insurance scheme. He said, “As a responsible government, we have also commenced the renovation of PHC facilities across the state starting from Okeyinmi Comprehensive Health Centre as well as 15 others to prepare adequate infrastructural facilities for the provision of basic health care services at selected locations. “With SHIS, our people will not go bankrupt or die suddenly due to lack of finance to seek effective and quality treatments for any ailment. The act of insurance simply implies getting ready or prepared for future unforeseen events, that is saving in readiness for unforeseen losses even though nobody prays for one.” The governor added that funds had been released to take care of specific vulnerable group especially pregnant mothers and children under the age of five to participate in the scheme at the point of care, adding that the other groups would be gradually incorporated into the scheme as they register and fulfill the requirements. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, said about 10,000 mothers and children have registered for the scheme. “For the smooth take-off of the scheme, we have partnered the WHO, NHIS and UNICEF to work out modalities that can bring the best for our citizens. “This scheme will bring about the steady, early and effective diagnosis of diseases and ensure effective treatment at the right time. This is a programme that will improve and extend the lifespan of Ekiti residents. Thirty days is usually the waiting days for you to start benefiting after registration, but it will be 14 days in Ekiti,” Yaya-Kolade said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 