FRIDAY OLOKOR and PETER DAVID The Independent National Electoral Commission on Saturday released the list of 14 political parties and candidates that will contest the governorship election in Edo State scheduled for September 19, 2020. The commission urged political parties to pay close attention to its timelines stipulated in the timetable as well as the provisions of the constitution and the Electoral Act. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said these in a statement issued by him in Abuja. According to him, by Section 35 of the Electoral Act and the timetable and schedule of activities of the INEC, the withdrawal and substitution of candidates for the Edo governorship election ended on July 13 2020. The statement read, “The Independent National Electoral Commission has in compliance with its timetable and schedule of activities and in accordance with Section 34 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) published the final list of candidates for the 2020 governorship election in Edo State by displaying it in the commission’s offices in the state capital and the 18 local government areas of Edo State. The list has also been uploaded on the commission’s website. “By Section 35 of the Electoral Act and the timetable and schedule of activities of the commission, the withdrawal and substitution of candidates for the Edo governorship election ended on July 13, 2020. “With the publication of the final list of candidates, no political party can withdraw or substitute any of the nominated candidates or tamper with the list and particulars of the candidates in a manner inconsistent with the intendment of the constitution and the Electoral Act. “We urge political parties to pay close attention to the timelines stipulated in the timetable and schedule of activities of the commission as well as the provisions of the constitution and the Electoral Act.” Meanwhile, a former chief whip of the senate and national leader of the Action Democratic Party, Senator Roland Owie, on Saturday declared for the Peoples Democratic Party and urged his supporters to work for the second term bid of the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki. Owie made the declaration in his hometown, Ilobi-Isi, in the Uhunmwonde Local Government Area of the state where he said he was a founding member of the PDP but that he alongside the late former Senate President, Chuba Okadigbo, were forced out of the party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 