AFEEZ HANAFI with agency report Four more deaths have been recorded in the Friday boat accident on Lagos waterway, bringing the number of fatalities to six. It was learnt that one more passenger was still missing as of Saturday evening while rescue operation continued. Two persons were confirmed dead on Friday after a passenger boat en route from Ebute-Ero to Ikorodu capsized around 8pm. Ten persons were rescued alive. In an update on Saturday, the General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyitolu, told Sunday PUNCH that four more bodies had been recovered. Oke-Osanyitolu, who said the boat violated the water transport travel time, disclosed that the boat captain was still missing. He said, “We have recovered four more bodies, bringing the number of the dead victims to six. One more person is still missing and operation is ongoing. We later discovered that 21 persons were on board. The operator of the boat will be sanctioned accordingly for violating the travel time to serve as a deterrent to others.” Also, the General Manager, the Lagos State Waterways Authority, Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, confirmed the four additional fatalities, while 14 persons survived the News Agency of Nigeria reports. He added, “The Lagos State Government through the Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, commiserates with the families of those who lost their loved ones in this tragedy. Search and rescue effort is still ongoing.’ “The accident happened at Owode/Ibeshe near Ikorodu around 8pm. Both the boat operator and the passengers broke the law against night travel on waterways.” On June 23, a local boat with four adult males on a boating expedition capsised in the state due to water turbulence. Three of the passengers were rescued alive while one was missing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 