Daud Olatunji,Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a 24-year-old man, Badmus Folarin, for burning the buttocks of a 10-year- old boy, Sunday David, for allegedly licking from a tin of tea. Folarin allegedly used a hot knife to burn the buttocks of the victim for taking from the tea, which belonged to his (Folarin’s) mother. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this on Sunday in a statement. Oyeyemi explained that the suspect resided on Elegushi Street, Owode-Yewa, Yewa South Local Government Area of the state. The PPRO said Folarin was arrested for maltreating the boy, who lived with his family. He said, “The suspect was arrested following a distress call received by the DPO Owode Egbado division, Olabisi Elebutte, from a concerned neighbour. “He  reported through a telephone call that they could hear a sorrowful cry of a boy at No 12 Elegushi Street, Owode-Yewa, consequent upon which the DPO detailed the patrol team to the scene where the young boy was seen lying down helplessly with serious injuries all over his body. “On enquiry, it was discovered that the suspect put a knife on fire and when the knife was red hot, he applied it to the buttocks of the boy, thereby inflicting second degree injuries on the innocent boy. “During interrogation, the suspect alleged that the victim, who is living with the family, opened a tin of Milo tea belonging to the suspect’s mother and licked from it.” Oyeyemi explained that the victim was rushed to a private hospital by the police, while the suspect was arrested and detained. He said the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and possible prosecution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 