Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri Suspected child traffickers in the Umuocha village, Awa Autonomous Community, Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State, have attacked a team of four policemen, who attempted to rescue an allegedly stolen child from them. Our correspondent learnt that the incident happened on Saturday when policemen on a stop-and-search duty were informed by residents that some men had stolen a baby boy from his mother at gunpoint on the Onitsha-Owerri Road. An indigene of the community, who identified himself simply as Kingsley, said the four cops gave the suspects a hot chase. According to him, the policemen traced the suspects and the baby to a hospital in Umuocha village. Kingsley stated, “When the policemen stormed the hospital, they were startled by the discovery of several children and many pregnant women quartered in the hospital, apparently being used for child trafficking. “When the policemen tried to ask questions, the owner of the hospital, one Innocent Onuoha, mobilised youths of the village, who surrounded the building, demobilised the police vehicle and attacked the four policemen with different objects and inflicted injuries on them.” Our correspondent learnt that it took the intervention of the member representing the Oguta State Constituency in the state House of Assembly, Frank Ugboma, for the policemen to escape from the scene. The lawmaker said he got a distressed call that some youths in the community had attacked police personnel, who went to effect the arrest of suspected members of a baby factory syndicate. Ugboma stated, “When I got the call in the night, I quickly mobilised and moved to the scene of the incident. “On approaching the place, two of the policemen, who managed to escape to the bush, came out from hiding on sighting my police escort vehicle. They narrated how they chased the suspects from the road to the village and how they were attacked by the youth. “They told me that immediately they stormed the illegal baby factory, which is disguised as a hospital, the owner raised an alarm and the youth came out and prevented the police from arresting the man, who hails from AwoOmamma, and in the midst of the melee, they overpowered the policemen and destroyed their vehicle, while the cops managed to escape with their rifles to avoid being killed or killing anyone.” When contacted, the spokesman for the state police command, Orlando Ikeokwu, confirmed the incident. Ikeokwu said the police arrested the owner of the baby factory, who was freed by the youth, while an inspector of police sustained injuries in the process. Ikeokwu added that the interim management Chairman of the local government promised to produce the owner of the baby factory, adding that no arrest had been made. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 