Tofarati Ige A lot has been written about actress, Regina Daniels; especially her marriage to billionaire lawyer and politician, Ned Nwoko, who is older than her by decades. When news of their romance started circulating, many alleged that  Regina got married to Ned because of his wealth, while others criticised Nwoko for marrying someone young enough to be his daughter. However, a lot of water has passed under the bridge and the couple was blessed with a child about a week though. In an interview with Saturday Beats, Daniels-Nwoko, spoke about her pregnancy experience, saying she didn’t face any challenges. “Before I got pregnant, people said pregnancy was hard; and the journey wasn’t easy. As a matter of fact, I heard so much. But I am still very young and it was more like living my normal life. I didn’t even have morning sickness and I didn’t face any challenges of any kind. It was pretty normal for me,” she said. Recalling her first impression when she met her husband, the actress said, “Being married to him (Ned Nwoko), I feel free. I can do whatever I want, dress however I like and live my life. He is always pushing me to be a better person. He brings me out there because he wants me to be more exposed. He wants me to see the world in a different way. As a matter of fact, there are so many things I just can’t start to explain. READ ALSO: Why I named my grandson, Goodnews –Obesere “The first impression I had when I met him, which I will keep saying is that he looked like a farmer. We actually went on a tour to his house in the village (Aniocha North Local Government Area, Delta State) and he was so polite and educative. He wants one to know about nature and the world in general. He wants one to experience different things, so he was always trying to educate us on that particular visit.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com