Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. Globally, the novel coronavirus pandemic has caused major disruptions in the food supply chain, as it has affected some major vehicles on which the agricultural sector rides and thrives since the outbreak. Accessing the farms to tend the crops became a challenge, as many countries went on lockdown restricting the movement of workers and disrupting other business and economic activities. This was done to stem the spread of the virus. Now that the lockdown has been relaxed and farmers can move to the farms, some crops are already late for planting, this year and that means that we might suffer some food shortages next year, if nothing is done in earnest. The fear of the food shortage is not only restricted to Nigeria alone but the whole of the African continent. This was echoed by former Nigerian President, Olusegun Obasanjo and aptly captured on the Salvo strip on the back page of The Punch Newspaper of June 9, 2020, when he was quoted to have said, “I think we have to take the issue of post-COVID-19 seriously. I believe most African governments have to find how to be self-sufficient in essential food items for the food crisis likely to be experienced and I don’t think most African countries have gone far, as they should go into food production this year.” According to a report obtained from the Food and Agriculture Organisation, the world population will hit 9.1 billion by 2050 and to feed that number of people, global food production will need to grow by 70 per cent. For Africa, which is projected to be home to about two billion people by then, farm productivity must accelerate at a faster rate than the global average to avoid continued mass hunger. Before crude oil was discovered and became the mainstay of the Nigerian economy, agriculture was the top source of revenue for the country and was the major contributor to Nigeria’s GDP. Cash crops, like cocoa, groundnuts, palm oil, rubber, cashew, etc., were exported to generate the required revenue for the country. After crude oil was, however, discovered, agriculture was relegated to the background and this, probably accounted for little or nothing done, to process these agricultural products into finished goods that would have commanded more revenue inflow. In Nigeria, many farmers are still having it rough, accessing essential mechanized farming tools, improved seeds, fertilizer and agro-chemical products, which are highly essential to enhance productivity. Not much research findings are being shared with the farmers in Nigeria to enable them to be more productive in yielding more tonnes in harvest per hectare of field planted. According to a report by Mckinsey and Company, Sub-Saharan Africa, will need eight times more fertilizer, six times more improved seed, at least $8 billion of investment in basic storage, (not including cold-chain investments for horticulture, or animal products) and as much as $65bn irrigation to fulfill its agricultural promise. The report, also, stated that 60 per cent of the population of sub-Saharan Africa is smallholder farmers and about 23 per cent of sub-Saharan Africa’s GDP comes from agriculture. With all these revelations, Africa’s full agricultural potential remains largely untapped. The statistics from Mckinsey and Company above was released in 2019, before the COVID-19 pandemic hit the world and it showed that Africa still has a long way to go, in terms of harnessing the potentials of the agricultural sector. As COVID-19 is still rampaging in Africa, can we confidently say that Africa can hit the target set in those statistics? The answer is no, in my view, but, individual countries in Africa can decide to take the bull by the horn and do whatever is possible to alleviate the imminent food crisis in their various countries, due to the effects of COVID-19. It is good to note that, in Nigeria, the ICRISAT and a host of other agricultural research institutes and the Federal government, has been doing something remarkable by distributing improved seeds of sorghum, pearl millet cowpea and rice, to farmers, in moves to alleviate the impact of COVID-19 on planting, this season. This might help in some ways. In the past few years, however, the agriculture sector in Nigeria has seen some improvement, in terms of investment, by some indigenous tech start-ups and this has been the game-changer for the sector. Their entry came with mechanized farming and the use of technology to boost their farming yield. These include start-ups, such as Farm360, Farmcrowdy, Thrive Agric, Verdant Agric, etc. They have revolutionised the agricultural landscape in Nigeria through their initiatives, involves the use of technology to, effectively, ensure the distribution food across the country. Government needs to do more, however, in encouraging more indigenous tech-based-farming start-ups to meet the growing food requirements in Nigeria, in years to come. These new agrictech start-ups will bring to bear their technological expertise in mechanized farming, improved seedling, more advanced farming methods and storage facilities, that will help in guaranteeing the sustenance of the Nigeria’s food requirement in the near future. The government should organize the local farmers still farming the old traditional ways to under-study the established farming start-ups on modern ways of farming. Modern farming tools that will encourage these local farmers, should be provided, maybe for lease, in various farming communities and rendered as a service to the local farmers in the interim. With time and more money in their pockets, the local farmers will be able to purchase their own mechanised farming tools, as they will have now experienced the difference. Mechanised farming, with the faithful backing of the government, is the only way to have a secured food supply for the Nigerian population in future. Finally, the Agricultural sector in Nigeria and the African continent in general, needs rejuvenation and governments across the Africa continent, especially, in Nigeria need to seriously, start looking into it, as the COVID-19 might cause a food shortage, which will, even, be worst than the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 