Global smartphone brand, OPPO, recently introduced two new budget smartphones – OPPO A12 & A31. Both smartphone options were designed to be smart answers to the most important needs of the average Nigerian. They are both built with Long-lasting batteries, Big/clear screens, Big RAM/ROM, Fast Processors, Good Cameras and most importantly, they both have the glamour of the responsive fingerprint unlock sensors. Both the OPPO A12 & A31 were designed to offer highly immersive entertainment experiences. Whether you are watching videos or playing games, the blue light system filters, prevent eye strain and protect your eyesight at all times. They also support AI Beautification, which automatically detects skin quality, age, gender, and skin tone, and create tailored solutions for different groups to amplify the beautiful elements of each person. For short video lovers, OPPO A12 & A31 comes with Soloop Smart Video Editor that can help you create professional-quality videos with cinematic filters through very easy steps.  In terms of quality, the OPPO A12 & A31 have gone through 100,000 Volume Button Tests, 200,000 Power Button Tests, 28,000 10cm Drop Tests. And if you need any help, OPPO Nigeria has a robust After-Sales Service Centre with qualified engineers to handle all repairs, issues or phone part requirements.  Below is a summary of all you need to know about OPPO A12 & A31:  For more information, please contact the OPPO PR Manager: Joseph.adeola@oppo-aed.ng About OPPO OPPO is a leading global smart device brand. Since launching its first smartphone – “Smiley Face” – in 2008, OPPO has been in relentless pursuit of the synergy of aesthetic satisfaction and innovative technology, Today, OPPO provides customers with a wide range of smart devices spearheaded by the Find and Reno series, ColorOS operating system, as well as internet services such as OPPO Cloud and OPPO+. OPPO operates in more than 40 countries and regions, with 6 research institutes and 4 R&D centers worldwide and an international design center in London, OPPO’s more than 40,000 employees are dedicated to creating a better life for customers around the world.