Peter Dada, Akure The plenary session of the Ondo State House of Assembly on Wednesday ended abruptly after three lawmakers were suspended for alleged gross misconduct. The suspended lawmakers –  the Deputy Speaker of the Assembly, Mr Iroju Ogundeji, Mrs Favour Tomomewo and Mr Adewale Adewinle – are among the nine members of the House that opposed the removal of the state Deputy Governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi. They were accused of violating standard rules of the House. The Assembly subsequently set up a committee to investigate the allegations levelled against them In the same vein, the Majority Leader of the House, Mr Jamiu Maito, who is also an anti-impeachment lawmaker, resigned from his position as the house leader. His letter of resignation was read on the floor of the House, by the Clerk, Mr Bode Adeyelu, during the plenary session. The Speaker of the House, Mr Bamidele Oleyelogun, explained that the suspended members violated standing rules of the House that could put the Assembly into disrepute. Oleyelogun noted that the business of the House would hence be taken serious and asked the suspended members “to submit all necessary documents of the House in their possession and stay away from the Assembly’s complex.” After the sitting , the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Mr Olugbenga Omole,  explained that the suspension resolution was  reached  at parliamentary meeting after Tuesday sitting. Reacting to the suspension, the Deputy Speaker said the suspension was because of their refusal to support the impeachment process against the Deputy Governor. Ogundeji  stated, “There is no allegation against us and the Speaker did not give us the opportunity to defend ourselves” The former Majority Leader,  Maito, said his resignation  was because he could not support the impeachment move of the House against the state Deputy Governor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com