Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo Special Adviser to Osun State Governor on Civic Engagement, Mr. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, on Sunday said a review of some policies of the past administration was among other reasons, due to rational demands by the stakeholders. Oyintiloye disclosed this while speaking to newsmen in Osogbo, said a periodic review of policies should not be regarded as political vendetta. He said the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola though building every good policy of its predecessors, but would not mind tinkering with any underperforming policies. He said, “any policy review made by the government should not only be seen as a way of responding to socio-political dynamics in the State but as a process borne out of compelling circumstances meant to advance good governance and at the same time, satisfy the yearnings of the stakeholders. “Reviews of policy as diligently being executed by Governor Oyetola at the moment are not in any way of throwing tantrums or vendettas at any past administration.” According to him, Osun Youths Empowerment Scheme and many other policies and programs of the immediate past administration were effectively being maintained by the present administration for the benefits of the citizenry. Oyintiloye said, “Some of the projects of the past administration that the present administration has given maximum attention to which include Osogbo – Ikirun – Ila Odo Road Construction, Gbongan – Akoda Road Construction, Oba Adesoji Aderemi East bypass road and Water Project in Ilesa, were all projects started by the last administration yet to reach the stage of completions. “While further committing himself to a government predicated on continuity, Oyetola out of his ingenuity has commenced the process of revisiting the establishing of the first commercial hub in the state through the disbursement of the compensation fund of N240 million to the farmers and landowners in Dagbolu where the international market is situated. “Review of some of the policies by the Oyetola-led administration had been more of rational demands on the part of the stakeholders in the state, while the government also acceded to the unarguable fact that citizens are at liberty to request for a policy review at any given period of time.”