Deji Lambo Property and goods worth millions of naira were destroyed on Wednesday when fire gutted the popular Ajao Estate Market, off the Airport Road, in Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the fire, which started around 1am, was caused by power surge from one of the lock-up shops near the market. The fire, however, spread to the main market and consumed no fewer than four shops. The Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, said there was no loss of life, adding that the combined efforts of the LASEMA Response Team, the Lagos State Fire Service and the Federal Fire Service brought the fire under control. He stated that the inferno was prevented from spreading to the adjoining buildings. Oke-Osanyintolu said, “The agency received a distress call around 1:59am via our emergency help line 767/112 regarding a fire outbreak at the Ajao Estate Market and we immediately deployed our team in the incident scene. “Upon arrival at the scene, it was discovered that the aforementioned market located inward Oshodi by the Welcome bus stop was completely engulfed in flames. “The Lagos State Fire Service, the LASEMA fire team and the Federal Fire Service battled the inferno and prevented it from spreading to nearby residential buildings. “Investigation revealed that the fire started from one of the lock-up shops, just before the main Ajao Estate Market, before it spread to the main market due to suspected power surge. “No life was lost and there were no injuries sustained, but a total of four shops were completely destroyed and property and goods worth several millions of naira were consumed by the inferno. “The fire was finally extinguished and the area cordoned off for safety reasons. Lagosians are encouraged to engage in safe electrical practices, including switching off all electrical outlets and storing of fuel properly.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com