Ife Ogunfuwa The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Mohammad Nanono, has flagged off the distribution of wet season farming support for improved rice production technologies among rice farmers at Tofai community in Gabasawa Local Government Area of Kano State. A statement by the ministry said the programme was part of the interventions being implemented under the Agro Processing Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support Project. Speaking at the event, Nanono said the initiative would support farmers to achieve improved productivity, enhance self-sufficiency and food security in the country. “We have commenced farmer registration exercise to capture their information, number of farmlands and locations. Also, the beneficiaries will be monitored to ensure effective utilisation of the facility, and mobilise participation in subsequent programmes,” he said. Nanono commended the APPEALS Project for supporting rice farmers in the state, noting that the gesture would go a long way to encourage agricultural activities in the country. The minister urged the beneficiaries to make good use of the of fertiliser, seeds and inputs given to them to boost their production capacity. “If you make proper use of the inputs, you could employ other people and it will enable you to participate in subsequent programmes,” he said. Also speaking, the State Project Coordinator, APPEALS Project in the state, Mr Hassan Ibrahim, said the project was being executed in collaboration between the World Bank, Federal Government and the six participating states of Kano, Kaduna, Cross River, Enugu, Lagos and Kogi. According to him, about 100 farmers drawn from six rice farmer groups participated in the programme in Gabasawa and is expected that 480 tons of rice will be produced by the selected farmers in Kano State. Ibrahim noted that the gesture was to augment the Federal Government’s policy on agriculture, designed to encourage productivity, enhance farmer enterprising skills, food security and value addition as well as export promotion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 