…set to submit report to minister Oyetunji Abioye and Olaleye Aluko The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control has concluded the laboratory analysis of the Madagascar drug, authoritative sources close to the development have revealed. The herbal drug sample, which the Madagascar government claimed could cure COVID-19 symptoms, was handed over to NAFDAC during the last week of May 2020. The drug sample, which was also shared with the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development, and the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, has now spent seven weeks with the agencies. A top official privy to the development said NAFDAC had completed its analysis and the report would be forwarded to the PTF any moment from now. It was learnt that the report was ready and would be forwarded to the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire. The source said, “NAFDAC’s laboratory people have concluded their own analysis. The agency’s director of laboratories will forward it to the Director-General and the DG will forward it to the Minister of Health who is a member of the Presidential Task Force. “So, it is a procedural thing. Whether it can cure or not, I cannot say until the report gets to the DG and to the minister.” READ ALSO: How policemen brutalised me, beat my mum — 22-year-old student On May 11, Madagascar offered to send its herbal drug – COVID Organics – to Nigeria and other African countries. The consignment of the drug was thereafter sent to Guinea from where it was airlifted to Abuja, Nigeria. The Director-General, NAFDAC, Pro Mojisola Adeyeye, had said that aside from the Madagascar drug, the agency was analysing other local herbal samples which laid claim to COVID-19 cure. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, had on May 28, at a PTF briefing in Abuja, confirmed that the Madagascar drug samples had been handed over to NAFDAC, NIPRD and NIMR for analyses. Meanwhile, NIPRD had said its findings showed that the drug samples could not cure COVID-19, contrary to the claim by the Madagascar authorities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com