Temiloluwa O’Peters The Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Tunji Bello, has said that over 7.5 million trees have been planted in Lagos State in the past nine years. He said this in Lagos at the 2020 Tree Planting Day which held at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba. Bello said tree planting was one of the deliberate climate change measures of the present government. “Till date, over 7.5 million trees have been planted since Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency was established in 2011,” he said. He noted that this was in line with the 13th goal of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal to combat climate change and its impacts. The General Manager, LASPARK, Mrs Adetoun Popoola, thanked the governor for his support and commitment towards the achievement of a healthy and sustainable environment. She also appreciated the frontline heroes for their sacrifice and dedication. “Just like trees, you give us hope and courage to persevere even in the harshest condition,” Popoola said. She encouraged Lagosians to continue the culture of planting trees as a legacy to save the planet. Commenting on the COVID-19 pandemic, the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said the pandemic could not become an excuse for taking attention away from the issue of climate change and environmental sustainability. He promised that Lagos State would continue to be at the forefront of sustainable climate action in Nigeria and Africa, and encouraged citizens to contribute strongly to the cause. Sanwo-Olu dedicated this year’s edition of the tree planting campaign to the honour of frontline medical personnel for their heroism and sacrifices. He said, “We are planting trees today to celebrate and support our health workers.” Just as these trees will long outlive us, the heroic feats and sacrifices of our frontline health workers will also never be forgotten, he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 