Patrick Odey, Uyo Residents of erosion-prone areas in Uyo metropolis, Akwa Ibom State, are living in fear as gully erosion occasioned by downpours is threatening to sack them from their homes. It was gathered that no fewer than 50 houses are at the risk of caving in, while about 10 buildings had already been washed away. Our correspondent reports that areas mostly affected are Asutan Street, Eka Street, Ikpa Road and Udo Inwang Street, off Nwaniba in the Ewet community, as well as Afaha Oku community, Etim Umana and St. Luke’s Hospital, Anua. The state government, in an attempt to save the residents of the affected areas, directed them to relocate to safer zones. A resident of Bassey Eta Street, Mr Austin Etop, told PUNCH Metro that the inhabitants were aware of the order to relocate, but called on the government to provide alternative accommodation for them. He lamented that the ravine on Asutan Street had wreaked much havoc on houses, adding that if nothing was urgently done during the rainy season, many people would be rendered homeless. Etop stated, “The primary responsibility of government is the provision of welfare and protection of lives and property. We are happy that the state government has constructed the roads you see here, but before then, we duly notified the contractors and other government representatives of the looming erosion, which is seriously encroaching on the houses, and they promised to work on it. “The roads were inaugurated without addressing that problem of gully erosion down there though with a promise that something would be done. The former Commissioner for Environment, Dr Essien, visited the site with a promise to do something; even the present commissioner, Mr Ekong Sampson, has visited and made the same promise. “I’m calling on the government to come to the aid of our people and if it asks people to evacuate, at least it should make alternative arrangements for them.” Another victim, who identified himself simply as Akpan, blamed the erosion on poor drainage system, as rainwater from Wellington Bassey Way and other adjoining streets was draining into the ravine. The Secretary to the Uyo Village Council, Mr Sylvester Akpan, said the government should not only ask people to relocate, it should provide alternative accommodation, adding, “It cannot just drive the residents away like that. The government should be a little sympathetic and look into their plight.” Responding, the Commissioner for Environment and Petroleum Resources, Mr Ekong Sampson, said it was better for the residents to relocate to a safer place while waiting for government’s assistance. “They must, as a matter of urgency, relocate to a safer place first. They must stay alive. The dead does not pay or receive rent. The government is putting remedial measures in place for assistance, and for them to enjoy such assistance, they must naturally be alive and in a safe place too,” the commissioner stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    