Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives is to conduct assessment of petroleum tank farms in Lagos, Rivers and Delta states over safety concerns. The ad hoc committee of the House, which is investigating location of tanks in residential areas, resolved at its investigating hearing in Abuja on Wednesday to visit the sites. The Federal Ministry of Environment and the Department of Petroleum Resources has also differed on who issued the necessary approval for the location of such farms. The Chairman of the committee, Mr Sergius Ogun, said the panel would commence the oversight function on August 17, 2020, asking all the chief executive officers of the companies owning the tanks to be on ground with all approvals and other relevant documents. Earlier, the Assistant Director, Evaluation and Analysis Department, Federal Ministry of Environment, Mr Gomwalk Celestine, said sometimes, some tank farms owners would have commenced construction before the ministry completed Environmental Impact Assessment. Celestine said some tank farms in Delta and Lagos did not have permit from the ministry to site their farms in the location where they were. The Head of Petroleum Deports and Jetties, DPR, Mr Bashir Sadiq, however, argued that the law establishing DPR did not require that the Ministry of Environment must be consulted before approvals were given to tank farms. Sadiq said, “We are acting with the powers of the Petroleum Act and subsidiary legislations and all that we have done is in consonance with the law. The Petroleum Act predates the establishment of the Federal Ministry of Environment and when it was established, the DPR Act was not changed to create a role for the ministry in the oil sector unfortunately.” and when it was established, the DPR Act was not changed to create a role for the ministry in the oil sector unfortunately.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 