John Alechenu, Olaleye Aluko and Peter David The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, who is the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the September 19, 2020 governorship election, said he would be commencing his campaign on Saturday (today). The governor’s campaign, according to a release by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, would begin by 10am at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City, in accordance with the National Centre for Disease Control guidelines against the spread of COVID-19. This is also as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, pledged to ensure that his campaign remains issues-based and peaceful. He stated this while speaking with journalists in Lagos State, adding that his party and campaign team would pursue peace and concentrate on his agenda throughout the electioneering. He assured the people of the state that contrary to fears being expressed in some quarters, the Edo state governorship election would be violence-free. Meanwhile, Obaseki’s spokesperson, Osagie, said the administration had “given a good account of himself on the back of the massive infrastructure transformation, education, healthcare, judicial and investment reforms.” The APC candidate, Ize-Iyamu, urged youths in the state not to allow themselves to be used as tools to perpetrate any act of electoral malpractice. Meanwhile, the Labour Party has said the immediate past APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, has no political power or influence to determine who would be elected as governor of Edo State in the September 19 election. In a joint statement on Friday,  the state National Secretary, Mr Abure Julius, and the party’s governorship candidate, Dr Isaiah Osifo, said the September governorship poll would be among the majority of Edo electorate, as “Oshiomhole has no political power or influence to decide who should be elected as the governor of Edo State.” Edo commissioner resigns The Edo State Commissioner for Environment and Sustainability, Omoua Oni-Okpaku, has resigned her appointment with the state government. Her resignation is coming barely one month after a former Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr Paul Ohonbamu, resigned. Although the official letter she tendered had not been made public as of press time, a source confirmed the development to Saturday PUNCH. The Chief of Staff to Governor Godwin Obaseki, Taiwo Akerele, had also in April resigned his appointment. Meanwhile, a group, We Have Decided, said it was supporting Governor Godwin Obaseki for his re-election bid. The group’s leader, Mr Godbless Otubure, who spoke to journalists during a roadshow in Benin City, said their support for the governor was driven by his commitment to good governance and his resolve to ensure that intellectuals take the front seat in governance. The group said it had over 2,000 members across the 18 local government areas and 192 wards in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com