’Femi Asu Oando Plc has commended the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation for spearheading the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano Gas Pipeline Project and others aimed at developing critical infrastructure in the country. The project was championed by two consortia, comprising select indigenous and international companies, and commenced in 2013 with the announcement for tenders by the NNPC. In April 2018, Oando announced that following extensive due diligence and bid process, the Oilserv-Oando Plc consortium was awarded the engineering, procurement, and construction mandate for segment 1, accounting for 40” by 303.4km linear pipeline system for the Ajaokuta to Kaduna portion of the project, Oando said in a statement. “The project, expected to be completed within a 24-month timeline, is a 614km section of the Trans-Nigeria Gas Pipeline with the capacity to transport about 2.2 billion cubic feet of gas per day. It will boost domestic utilisation of natural gas for Nigeria’s social economic development when completed,” it said. Oando said the project would support the addition of 3,600 megawatts of power to the national grid and connect energy demand from the northern part of the country with supply from the South. The Group Chief Executive, Oando, Adewale Tinubu, said, “As a proudly Nigerian company focused on driving indigenous participation, we have always been proponents of public-private partnership in accelerating the actualisation of the nation’s goals. “We have aspired to play an integral role in the development of the national gas infrastructure and pipeline grid, as evidenced by our efforts in 2009, post the Nigerian Gas Master Plan when we participated in the unrealised Calabar-Ajaokuta-Abuja-Kano line.” He said the company had developed strategic partnerships with both private sector players and the NNPC in bringing sustainable solutions to spur the development of the country through numerous gas development and distribution projects. Tinubu said, “We commend the NNPC for spearheading projects that will soften the headwinds occasioned by the global COVID-19 pandemic. “We are proud to be active participants in driving the country’s industrialisation and actualisation of the Gas Master Plan which will undoubtedly create employment opportunities and ultimately generate as well as enhance value for the nation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com