Ebenezer Bajela Wycombe Wanderers big striker, Adebayo Akinfenwa, has jokingly said the unavailability of his kit size in the Nigerian national team may have played a role in his inability to get a call-up to the Super Eagles in 2003, but admitted that the country was blessed with a lot of talents. Akinfenwa, who stands at 1.85m tall and weighs 102kg, admitted he made an effort to play for Nigeria when he was 21, but was overlooked. In an interview with ESPN, the 38-year-old joked that his body size could have been the reason for his inability to make the Eagles team. He said, “I had interest (playing for Nigeria) when I was young. I was 21 when I hooked up with former England striker of Nigerian origin John Fashanu; there was talk then, but Nigeria are always blessed with great strikers, so it was harder for me. “I know there was a campaign one time to try and get me out there, but they weren’t really feeling me and that… maybe they haven’t got a kit that can fit me.” Though, born in London, Akinfenwa holds the Eagles dear saying they helped him understand the value of embracing the culture of his ancestry. “I remember the 1994 World Cup, the Super Eagles with (Daniel) Amokachi, Jay-Jay Okocha and (Rashidi) Yekini like it was yesterday,” he told ESPN. “It was such an immense feeling, coming up against Argentina, and I can remember that World Cup being amazing for Nigeria. “It leaves an impression, and what I loved the most was the fact that you saw our culture when they scored; and those celebrations, you saw the colours. “So as a Nigerian I saw to never be afraid to embrace your culture, to let people know what your culture is, and I don’t shy away from who I am. Everything I do, I let (people) see who I am and I don’t shy away from being me; that’s what I take away from 1994 and 1998. “That was what I got from it, as a youngster, going into manhood; that was what I was able to take from watching the Super Eagles.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 