Olaleye Aluko The Lagos State Police Command has arrested two persons in the Fatade, Baruwa area of Ipaja for allegedly stabbing a 30-year-old man, Abiodun Rafiu, to death. Our correspondent learnt that the suspects, identified only as Ademola and Uche, reportedly stabbed Rafiu with a bottle during altercation which occurred at their residence on Apostle Street, Fatade in the Baruwa area. The matter was reported at the Ipaja Police Division by the mother of the deceased, identified as Yemisi Rafiu on June 13. While an eyewitness claimed that the men were arguing over money, another witness said the suspects claimed Rafiu insulted them during which they allegedly stabbed him with a bottle. One of them said, “It was in the evening around 8pm. Nobody knew what caused the quarrel. It was a street fight among the three men and two of them picked up a bottle and stabbed Abiodun (Rafiu). We are all neighbours. People suspected that it was over money.” A police source noted, “The mother of the deceased came to the station and reported that on her way from her daughter’s place, she saw a large crowd gathered in front of her residence. People started persuading her to take heart over her son. She later understood that two neighbours stabbed him to death with a bottle during an argument. “The suspects, Ademola and Wasiu, were later arrested. Rafiu was rushed to the Healing Virtues Hospital in the Baruwa area where he later died due to excess loss of blood. The scene of the incident was visited and the family members have buried the man according to Islamic rites.” The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, confirmed the incident, adding that investigation was ongoing. He said, “The case has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Yaba, for discreet investigation. We cannot preempt what caused the quarrel; that is what the investigation is going to unravel. The suspects will soon be charged to court.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com