Olalekan Adetayo and John Alechenu, Abuja. The Peoples Democratic Party has asked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to resign. The party cited growing insecurity and alleged institutionalised corruption in the country as grounds for the call. PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, spoke at a media briefing titled, ‘Nigeria in a free fall, as corruption, insecurity engulfs the nation,’ at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja on Friday. The opposition leader described the current situation in Nigeria as frightening, noting that several attempts by his party to draw attention to the slide into chaos appeared to have fallen on deaf ears. According to him, Nigerians were living like a society of humans without a government because those at the helm of affairs appeared nonchalant about the sufferings of the masses. Secondus said, “What we are witnessing in our country today is a total collapse of the nation; the country is on ventilator gasping for air. Under such circumstance, President Buhari should do the honourable thing required of an elder statesman in situations like this; throw in the towel and save the country from ruins. “No attempt is being made from any corner to stem the freighting tide in our land. No effort is being made from any angle to halt the ongoing free fall being witnessed in all fronts in the country. “Nigerians have become helpless and have come to accept and live like citizens of nations without leaders and with no direction. When do we start looking at the state of the nation when all segments of governance have collapsed?” The PDP chairman equally expressed disgust at the seeming indifference of the Buhari regime to the growing levels of insecurity and the near collapse of the Nigerian economy due to the monumental corruption being exhumed from various government ministries, agencies and parastatals almost on a daily basis. But, in response, the Chairman of the Buhari Media Organisation, Niyi Akinsiju, said the PDP ought to be ashamed of itself because it was the least qualified to talk about corruption. Also, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, has said Buhari will not resign. He said the President was determined to continue the fight against corruption. Shehu said this in a statement titled “PDP gripped by undemoractic pandemic” which he made available to journalists on Friday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com