Patrick Odey, Uyo The Iwuochang community in the Ibeno Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State is on the verge of being washed away by ocean tide following the abandonment of the embankment project in the area by the Niger Delta Development Commission. It was gathered that the contract for the project was awarded in 2012 by the NDDC to Messrs Smith Engineering to replace the worn-out embankments around the river in order to check frequent encroachment into the community during high tides. The Village Head of Iwuochang, Daniel Afia, who spoke with journalists on the plight of the community, lamented that the project had been abandoned for eight years, leaving the community at the mercy of the rampaging tide. He said efforts to draw the attention of both the contractors and the NDDC to the situation had fallen on deaf ears. The Youth Vice-President of the community, Mr Willie Willie, said Iwuochang had lost most of its houses to the tide as a result of the inability of the contractor to complete the project He stated, “You know they had to remove the old and worn-out embankments for new ones, but after removing the old ones, they abandoned the project, leaving the community at risk. “It is always very threatening when the high tide comes; there is nothing to hold it. All the houses around here were occupied by the owners, but they have all been sacked because the tide is usually fast, high and unexpected.” Willie said he had on several occasion taken letters to the NDDC office in Port Harcourt and its zonal office in Uyo without any response. The Chief Security Officer of the area, Mr Ebrewong Eshiet, who also spoke with journalists, blamed the failures of the NDDC projects in the region on poor supervision and contract award on political grounds. He lamented that youths from the community employed by Smith Engineering for the project were being owed salaries. Efforts to get the NDDC’s spokesman in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Mr Charles Odili, to react to the issue were not successful as of the time of filing this report, as he did not take his calls and failed to respond to a text message sent to his mobile telephone. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  