Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, on Monday emerged from a meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on the deteriorating security situation across the country, beating his chest that he had done well. The meeting took place at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, against the backdrop of increasing activities of bandits, insurgents and kidnappers in parts of the country. At a meeting Buhari had with the nation’s security chiefs in June, he had told them that their best was not good enough. But Buratai told State House correspondents at the end of the meeting with the President on Monday that he had succeeded in restoring normalcy to the North-West. He said he had accomplished one aspect of the task Buhari gave him and he met with the President to brief him on ongoing military operations in the North-West and North-East and other matters that concerned the Nigerian Army. The Army chief said, “The security situation, I assure you, is under control and is not like what used to happen a month or two ago. We are working very hard and the troops are doing very well and I commend them for the efforts they have put in so far. “These include the kinetic and the non-kinetic aspects of our ‘Exercise Sahel Sanity.’ We are there fully supporting Operation Hadarin Daji, which is a joint operation of the armed offices and the security agencies. “So far, this collective effort is making tremendous progress in the area of bringing normalcy. Unlike the series of killings, kidnappings, cattle rustling and of course the threats to prevent the people from going to their farms, these have been removed with the presence of the number of troops in the North-West and they are carrying out surveillance operations, patrol to ensure that no one is molested if they go outside the community to farm or harvest.” When asked to state the task that was given to him by the President which he claimed he had partly completed, Buratai said the task was to secure the country from any form of insecurity. “So, it is the same task that we should end or curtail or bring to the barest minimum the issue of kidnapping, banditry, terrorism and insurgency and we have been doing it for a long time. We are essentially supporting the police to ensure that our country is safe,” he said. When asked if Nigeria could win the war against insecurity, Buratai said the feat could be achieved with the support of Nigerians. “These terrorists, 99 per cent of them are Nigerians. These kidnappers, I will say 100 per cent of them are Nigerians. So, it is not just a military, security agency task to end the insecurity in this country. It is only when it goes bad that we are called in; but everybody has the responsibility to handle that.” Buratai urged the media not to escalate the situation through reportage by giving prominence to the bandits and terrorists. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com