Patrick Odey, Uyo Police personnel from the Abak Division in the Abak Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State have arrested a motorcyclist, Edidiong Tommy, for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl at gunpoint. The suspect, 31, allegedly diverted his passenger to his house located at No. 75 Hospital Road, Abak, where he conspired with another man now at large to rape the victim at gunpoint. The command, in a statement by its Public Relations Officer, Nnudam Fredrick, on Thursday, said the suspect also dispossessed the victim of a Lily phone valued at N17,000 and N50,000 after raping her. The statement read in part, “Responding to a distress call on May 20, 2020, detectives from the Abak Division arrested a motorcyclist, one Edidiong Daniel Tommy, 31, who diverted a 16-year-old passenger to his house at No. 75 Hospital Road, Abak, where he conspired with another suspect now at large and had unlawful carnal knowledge of the victim at gunpoint. “The suspects thereafter dispossessed the victim of her Lily phone valued at N17,000 and the sum of N50,000.” Fredrick said the command also arrested four suspected rapists at different locations in the state He stated, “On June 21, 2020, around 5pm, following a complaint, detectives from the Eket Division arrested one Sam Akpan, 30, of Atabong/Liverpool Road, Eket. Investigation revealed that the suspect bought ponmo worth N200 from a 10-year-old girl and thereafter lured her into his house on the pretext that he left the money at home. “On reaching the house, he dragged the girl into his room and forcefully had carnal knowledge of her. “On July 5, 2020, around 8.30pm, detectives from the Ikot Ekpene Division apprehended one Godwin Ime Willie, 34, of Ikot Ubo, Ikot Ekpene LGA, who forcefully had unlawful carnal knowledge of his 15-year-old daughter. “Based on a tip-off on June 26, 2020, operatives of the Area Command, Etim Ekpo, arrested one Joseph Ekeruke Inyang, 36, of No. 1 Primary School Road, Utu Etim Ekpo, Etim Ekpo LGA, who lured a 12-year-old girl with N500 to his room, where he had unlawful carnal knowledge of her. “On June 25, 2020, operatives of the Ikot Ekpene Division apprehended one Nsisong Moses Asuquo, 34, of No. 7 Okonnah Street, Ikot Ekpene, for sexually defiling a 13-year-old girl. “Investigation revealed that the suspect took the victim from her guardian to his home on the pretext of wanting her as a housemaid and defiled her several times before sending her away.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com