Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Kaduna State Police Commissioner, Umar Muri, has deployed more policemen to the southern part of the state to stop further killings in the area. Specifically, the CP deployed more policemen to five local government areas of Kajuru, Zango-Kataf, Kaura, Kauru, and Jemaa. The commissioner said the deployment was part of efforts towards restoring law and order in the troubled part of the state. This followed the order of the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, asking that the Kaduna CP deploy more personnel in addition to the ones on ground. Members of the House of Representatives from Southern Kaduna had also raised the alarm over planned attacks by militias and armed herdsmen on communities during the Eid-el-Kabir celebration. Apart from Kajuru, four Local Government Areas, including Zango-Kataf, Kaura, Kauru and Jemaa, have been under persistent attacks recently, forcing the state government to impose a 24-hour curfew on the affected communities. The State Command’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, in a statement on Friday, said, “The Commissioner of Police Kaduna State Command, Umar Muri has ordered for immediate deployment of more Police personnel to Kajuru, Zango Kataf, Kaura and Kauru Local Government Areas of the State as part of efforts towards restoring law and order in the affected areas, as a result of the recent violence and other security challenges. “The Commissioner of Police has directed all Area Commanders and DPOs within the affected areas to make adequate use of the deployed personnel in ensuring the safety of lives and properties as well as the full enforcement of the 24 hourly curfew imposed by the Kaduna State Government. “The Commissioner of Police wishes to commiserate with the good people of Kaduna State, particularly those who have lost their loved ones and property as a result of the crises. He further assures that the Command will do everything within its powers to ensure that peace is restored in the affected areas. “In the same vein, the Commissioner of Police enjoins the law-abiding citizens of the State to cooperate with the Police, the Military and other law enforcement agencies as they carry out the full enforcement of the curfew amongst other measures with a view to ensuring their safety. “He however warns troublemakers in the State to desist forthwith from acts of violence and lawlessness, as the Command will not hesitate to deal decisively with any person or persons found in the act of disturbing the relative peace enjoyed by the good people of the State.”