Dayo Ojerinde The Medical Guild and the National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives have disagreed with the Lagos State Government for disengaging some frontline health workers in the state. The PUNCH learnt that no fewer than 30 volunteer health workers at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba and the Onikan Isolation Centre have been told to leave. The Chairman, Medical Guild, Lagos, Dr Oluwajimi Sodipo, in an interview with our correspondent, said it was unfortunate that the Lagos State Government did not have any concrete agreement with the health workers that had been told to stop rendering services at the isolation centre. He said, “Although I can’t give a specific number of workers affected, the majority of them were Medical Guild members. The state government just informed them that their time is up, claiming that they wanted to rotate health workers in the isolation centres. Our challenge had been that there had been no agreement with them in the first place when they started. The state government is owning those set of workers about two months allowances. “Some of the affected health workers complained that they had at one point or the other became positive with COVID-19 and there was no clarification on the insurance that they were supposed to benefit from the state government. All these things should have been clearly stated in an agreement before they started work at the isolation centre.” Sodipo added that the Guild would embark on a strike if the state government refuse to address the discrepancies in the volunteer health workers’ terms of agreement. “We had a number of discussions that have been ongoing with the state government and if you recall, there is an ultimatum that was issued by the Medical Guild which expired on June 29, it was extended by the Congress to give the state government more opportunity to meet the demands, especially in this time of COVID-19, so that we don’t have any disruption of service. “The ultimatum is about to expire and it doesn’t seem as if much has been done following the expiration of the first ultimatum and we would not want a situation where we would have to withdraw services so that we can continue to protect lives of the public,” he said. The Chairman, Lagos State branch of the National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives, Mrs Blessing Israel, in an interview with our correspondent, said the nurses in the state isolations centres would withdraw their services of nurses at isolation centres if the state government refuse to address issues regarding their welfare. “The state government should do the needful; they should pay them their allowances that they are being owed.  If this is not done, we might be forced to withdraw our services from the isolation centres. “It so unfortunate how the state government has disengaged the volunteer workers; at the heat of coronavirus in Lagos State, these health workers volunteered to face the war against the virus. As of that time, nobody knew if anyone who contracts the virus will survive, but they went ahead to volunteer. The governor, the commissioner celebrated them, welcomed them and they started the job enthusiastically. “I also gathered that the state government has stopped the breakfast of our members at the Infection Disease Hospital, Yaba and other isolation centres. The nurses are no longer accommodated in the hotels, they are now coming from home to care for COVID-19 patients,” Israel said. Lagos State Commissioner for Information, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, in an interview with our correspondent confirmed that some of the volunteer workers were owed one month allowance, but promised that the state government would pay them before the end of the week. “They are volunteer workers, nobody was forced to take up the job; it is an emergency, nobody planned for COVID-19. The workers are being rotated so that they will not be fatigued. “Some of them who are being owed allowances are owed will be paid this week,” Omotosho said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 