Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, on Wednesday said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), will be departing Abuja for Bamako, Mali, on Thursday. He said the journey followed the briefing the President received on Tuesday from former President Goodluck Jonathan on the crisis in Mali. Adesina disclosed this in a statement titled, “President Buhari embarks on peace mission to Mali.” The statement read in part, “President Muhammadu Buhari will Thursday depart for Bamako, Republic of Mali on a one-day visit, following the briefing by the ECOWAS Special Envoy to the country, former President Goodluck Jonathan. “The Nigerian President and some ECOWAS leaders led by the Chairman of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of the sub-regional organisation, President Issoufou Mahamadou of Niger Republic, agreed to meet in Mali to engage in further consultations towards finding a political solution to the crisis in the country. “Host President, Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, and Presidents Machy Sall of Senegal, Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana and Alassane Ouattara of Cote d’Ivoire are expected to participate in the Bamako meeting.” “Former President Jonathan was at the State House in company of President of ECOWAS Commission, Mr Jean-Claude Kassi Brou, on Tuesday to brief President Buhari on the unfolding situation in Mali, necessitating the visit of ECOWAS leaders to consolidate on the agreements reached by various parties.” The former President had informed Buhari about his activities as Special Envoy to restore amity to Mali, rocked by protests against President Keita, who has spent two out of the five years second term in office. Adesina’s statement added, “A resistance group, M5, is insisting that the Constitutional Court must be dissolved, and the President resign, before peace can return to the country. “Crisis had erupted after the court nullified results of 31 parliamentary seats in the polls held recently, awarding victory to some other contenders, which the resistance group said was at the instigation of President Keita. “Riots on July 10 had led to the killing of some protesters by security agents, causing the crisis to spiral out of control, hence the intervention by ECOWAS.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    