’Tosin Oluwalowo A section of Nigerian fans have congratulated Kelechi Nwakali on gaining promotion to the Spanish LaLiga Huesca and are hopeful playing topflight football will revive the career of the U-17 World Cup winner. The Nigerian, who joined the Spanish side from Arsenal last summer after failing to make an appearance for the Gunners, also featured sparingly for his new club, making only five appearances all season, after making his debut June 18. He however featured in the last three games of the season, playing 90 minutes in the last game – a 1-0 victory over Sporting Gijon. With his impressive outing in the last game, where he had 90 per cent pass accuracy and won four tackles, the fans, who commented on Twitter, believe he will realise his potential playing against the stars in the Spanish topflight. Bimbo Oyedokun tweeted,  “I hope he plays more in the Primera (LaLiga) than he did in the Segunda. We still don’t have a proper creative midfielder for the Eagles. Would be great if he comes good.” “So proud of this dude, watched him play at the U-17 and I thought to myself ‘this is one for the future’. Hope he commands a regular shirt when season starts. He deserves it,” @UyohDaVoice added. Ogadi Ejike wrote. “This is one Nigerian player I can’t wait to see him playing regularly.” Amen Adeyemi believes the promotion signaled the beginning of greatness for the midfieder, a view which was reietared by Henry Adelaja, who asked the 22-year-old to put in more hardwork. “So happy for him…hope this will be the beginning of his greatness…good player no doubt,” Adeyemi tweeted. “Congratulations @Kelechi_nwakali on your promotion to the LaLiga!!!, now the hard work begins…Go and blossom,” Adelaja wrote. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com