Kelvin Ekerete It’s been mixed blessing for Nigerian footballers in Europe in the last few days, with some getting relegated from topflight football, while others emerged champions, as well as gain promotion to the top tier. Super Eagles duo, Kenneth Omeruo and Chidozie Awaziem, could only watch as Leganes were relegated from LaLiga after their 2-2 draw against champions Real Madrid on Sunday. Leganes needed a win to retain their status as long as Celta Vigo lost to Espanyol, but the game ended goalless, ensuring that the Célticos remained in the Spanish topflight. With the result, Los Pepineros finished 18th in the league table with 36 points, winning eight games, with 12 draws and 18 losses. In Germany, defender Jamilu Collins also got relegated with SC Paderborn after just one season in the Bundesliga. In England, with two games to the end of the season, Isaac Success and Tom Dele-Bashiru’s Watford are on the verge of losing their English Premier League status. The Hornets face second-place Manchester City in their must-win penultimate game of the season on Tuesday (today) without manager Nigel Pearson, who was recently given the sack by the club’s management. However, in Turkey, it was celebration time for former Nigeria U-23 captain, Azubuike Okechukwu, who helped Istanbul Başakşehir win their first-ever Turkish Super Lig title. Basaksehir’s win puts an end to the dominance of Fenerbahce, Galatasaray and Besiktas. The trophy came at the expense of Anthony Nwakaeme’s Trabzonspor, who lost 4-3 at home to lose out on the trophy. Former U-17 captain, Kelechi Nwakali, helped Huesca return to the Spanish LaLiga over the weekend after a 3-0 win over Numancia on Friday. Huesca finished second in the Spanish second tier league. Midfielder Rabiu Ibrahim and striker Ezekiel Henty were also crowned double champions with Slovan Bratislava, after winning the league and Cup titles in Slovakia. The champions lost just one game in 27 fixtures. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com