Armstrong Bakam, Maiharaji Altine, Ted Odogwu and  Edward Nnachi A 25-year-old man has allegedly defiled a seven-year-old girl and left her battling for life at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi. It was gathered that the suspect is currently on the run. The founder of a Bauchi-based non-governmental organisation, the Babba Takko Foundation, Hajiya Zainab Babba-Takko, who narrated the incident to journalists on Thursday, said it occurred on Tuesday in the Anguwar Kur area of Bauchi metropolis. She said the suspect lured the girl to an abandoned building in the area and raped her, after which he dumped her near an abandoned clinic in the area, leaving her for dead. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Wakili, said he had yet to get a report on the incident from the concerned division but promised to get back as soon as he got it. He had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Similarly, a 28-year-old man, Abubakar Sani, of Nasarawa village in the Gummi Local Government Area of Zamfara State has been arrested by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps for allegedly defiling a four-year-old girl. Abubakar, who has hearing impairment, was arrested on June 30, 2020, by operatives of the NSCDC in the local government area and his case was transferred to Gusau for legal action. Meanwhile, a High Court sitting in Bompai, Kano, has sentenced one Abdullahi Magaji of the Kumbotso Local Government Area of Kano State to 14 years’ imprisonment for defiling a six-year-old girl in an uncompleted building in February 2016. Justice Suleiman Baba Dan Mallam, who delivered the judgment, also ordered the convict to pay a mandatory fine of N200,000 to the court and another N200,000 to the victim as compensation. In a related development, the state police command, on Wednesday, arraigned a suspected serial rapist, Mohammed Alfa, for allegedly raping 40 women, including an 85-year-old grandmother, in the last one year. The suspect was arraigned on two counts before the Magistrates’ Court 18, Nomanland, Sabon Gari, Kano. In another development, an Ebonyi State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Abakaliki, on Thursday, remanded a 42-year-old man, John Mbam, in a correctional facility for allegedly defiling a 14-year-old girl, in Ebonyi State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 