Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State Government has threatened to enforce its environmental laws to stop incessant flooding in the state. The government made the threat following the over 18-hour of torrential rainfall, which wreaked havoc in some parts of the state on Saturday. The state Commissioner for the Environment, Abiodun Abudu-Balogun, stated this on Sunday during the inspection of areas affected by the flood in Abeokuta, the state capital. The torrential rainfall left many residents living in flood prone areas homeless as it destroyed property worth millions of naira. Abudu-Balogun, who was in company with his Physical Planning and Urban Development counterpart, Tunji Odunlami, inspected the Ijeja, Ijeun Titun, Gbangba, Odo-Eran, Isale-Oja Kuto, Sokori and Ago-Ijesa canals. The commissioners, who observed the extent of the devastation caused by the flood, pledged that the Dapo Abiodun administration would take steps to overcome the problems. Abudu-Balogun said if not for the recent dredging of the canals, the devastation would have been greater. He also promised that the government would continue the dredging of rivers to ensure free flow of water to avoid a recurrence of flooding in parts of the state. He identified human activities such as indiscriminate dumping of refuse in waterways as one of the factors responsible for flooding. Abudu-Balogun stated, “As a government, we are going to take decisive steps to ensure that residents comply with environmental laws. We are happy that no life was lost. We will ensure that corrections are made to forestall the annual occurrence of this natural disaster. “We have seen the extent of the damage done by the flooding. We will continue to dredge canals in the state to allow for free passage of water. “Human activities, including building on waterways and indiscriminate dumping of refuse in streams and rivers, are factors responsible for what we are seeing here. We can all see the devastating effect that these have caused.” Odunlami, on his part, expressed the regrets about the incident. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 