Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri A 44-year-old man, Confidence Nwokedinma, diagnosed with kidney failure is seeking help from Nigerians to undergo a kidney transplant. Nwokedinma, a native of Assa in the Ohaji/Egbema Local Government Area of the state who spoke to our correspondent from his hospital bed at Step of Faith Hospital,Owerri, said medical report indicated that his two kidneys had failed. He said that he urgently needed kidney transplant to enable him lead a normal life again. Clutching a report stating his medical case, the graduate of Education Psychology from the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, said that his condition was deteriorating daily. He told Saturday PUNCH that he had expended his savings on the 17 dialysis he underwent. According to him, doctors at the Federal Medical Centre, Owerri and Step of Faith Hospital, Owerri, advised him to go for kidney transplant for his two kidneys. The patient said the transplant according to the medical estimate would gulp between N10m and N13m. Nwokedinma therefore appealed to Nigerians to come to his aid. He said “I five children. Earlier in the year, I developed stomach pain. I went for a scan and it was discovered that my two kidneys failed. It was on March 6. I went to FMC, Owerri and was admitted. The doctors advised me to go for dialysis and it was then it was discovered that my two kidneys had failed. “The doctors then advised me to go for a kidney transplant which will gulp between N10m and 13m.They stated that the transplant would be done in Abuja. I don’t know what to do next. I have expended all I have on dialysis. This is the 17th dialysis I had done and each one cost about N45, 000. “I am calling on Nigerians to assist me. Nigerians should not allow me to die. The state and federal governments should come to my aid. Nigerians should not allow me to die. My wife was just delivered of a baby and I need to be alive to train my children. I need help urgently.’’ Nwokedinma can be reached via 08037221531 and well-meaning Nigerians can make donations to First Bank, Account number; 3054739645 and Account name: Confidence Nwokedinma. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com