Ada Wodu, Matthew Ochei and Adeniyi Olugbemi Gunmen have kidnapped the wife of Justice Ignatius Agube of the Court of Appeal, Ekwele, while her aide also died during the attack. Sources said the gunmen, who drove a Volkswagen Audi80 car, stormed the victim’s shop at Ekorinim in Calabar on Saturday and whisked her away to an unknown destination. It was gathered that during the incident, Ekwele’s personal assistant, Glory Mpama, collapsed and later died in a Calabar hospital. PUNCH Metro could not confirm if she was shot during the kidnap of her boss or if she died of shock. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Irene Ugbo, confirmed the incident to our correspondent on Sunday. “I am aware that she (Ekwele) was kidnapped yesterday (Saturday). We are trying to rescue her. The Commissioner of Police has deployed the anti-cultism and kidnapping squads to track down the kidnappers,” she said. As of the time of filing this report, contact had not been made with the family of the victim by the abductors. Similarly, the Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Delta State chapter, Goodluck Ofobruku, has been abducted by gunmen. PUNCH Metro gathered that the labour leader was abducted around 8pm on Saturday while driving out of his house behind the Immigration office on the Ibusa/Asaba Road in the state capital. It was learnt that the hoodlums were robbing at a pub on the street before they abducted the state NLC chairman. The Secretary of the NLC in the state, Innocent Ofoyade, told PUNCH Metro that Ofobruku was driving in the union’s Sienna vehicle to get drugs when the incident occurred. Ofoyade said the victim was intercepted by the hoodlums on the street, adding that the abductors had yet to establish contact with the family. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, who confirmed the incident on Sunday said, “It is a case of armed robbery and abduction. The hoodlums were actually robbing on the street when the NLC chairman drove out and he was abducted. “They were robbing a shop at the same time that he was driving out of his compound and the hoodlums abducted him and escaped through the bush.” The PPRO said the police had started combing the bush to ensure Ofobruku’s release. Meanwhile, suspected kidnappers, on Saturday, struck at the Makera Maidoya area of the Wammako Local Government Area of Sokoto State, and abducted one Bashar Maidoya. Before policemen got to the village, opposite the Usmanu Danfodiyo University Vice Chancellor’s quarters, the kidnappers had escaped with the victim. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, ASP Muhammad Sadiq, told one of our correspondents, “On Saturday, around 3.30am, information reached the Wamakko Police Division that hoodlums, numbering about 20, went to the Makera Maidoya village, opposite the UDUS VC’s quarters and kidnapped one Bashar Ahmed Maidoya. “The DPO led a team of detectives to the scene and upon their arrival, it was discovered that the hoodlums had already escaped through the nearby bush. “Meanwhile, special operatives have been drafted to trail thy fleeing suspects and rescue the victim unhurt as well as apprehend the culprits for prosecution.” Sadiq also gave an update on the recent incident at Tudun Mai Tandu in the Dange Shuni Local Government Area of the state, where a robbery suspect was arrested with an AK-47 rifle, two empty shells and live ammunition. He stated, “The traditional rulers in the area have assisted the police in uncovering three key persons behind the refusal of the villages to hand over the suspect to the police for investigation and prosecution. “Even, with the intervention of stakeholders, including the Chairman of the Dange Shuni Local Government Council and a former Speaker, Sokoto House of Assembly, the villagers insisted that they would only hand over the suspect to soldiers and not the police.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 