Abiodun Nejo The organised labour in Ekiti State has issued a 14-day ultimatum effective from Monday to the state government within which to meet its demands on workers’ welfare issues or risk strike action. The organised labour, comprising Nigeria Labour Congress; Trade Union Congress and the Joint Negotiating Council, rising from their meeting in Ado Ekiti, accused the Dr Kayode Fayemi administration of ignoring the welfare needs of the workers. The labour union stated its position in a letter to the governor entitled, “14 days ultimatum to implement matters affecting workers’ welfare in Ekiti State to avoid three days warning strike” signed by the chairmen of NLC, Kolapo Olatunde; TUC, Sola Adigun; and JNC, Kayode Fatomiluyi; and secretaries of JNC, Gbenga Olowoyo; TUC, Kuloogun Lawrence; and NLC Taiwo Akinyemi. According to the statement signed on Saturday, the organised labour, which reached the decision at its meeting on July 16, said it “felt dazed and betrayed by the state government for not acceding to any of workers’ demand since the beginning of the present administration which is now close to two years. This is painful.” Calling on the state government to implement all the listed items within 14 days effective from Monday, labour stated that “failure, workers shall embark on three days warning strike commencing in the midnight of Monday, August 3, 2020 without fail.” The issues, according to the statement included “non-implementation of financial benefits arising from the letters of promotion given to all deserving workers from years 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and advancement and government’s decision to jetition the outstanding promotions for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 and contemplating implementation of 2018 and 2019 only. “Non-payment of leave bonus for the years 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 to all deserving workers in the state; non-payment of special hazard allowance for health workers; and non-payment of deductions such as cooperative societies deductions, bank loan repayment, union check off dues among other deductions in recent time by the present state government under the guise of introduction of net salary payment.” They also sought “with immediate effect, payment of three months gross salary arrears and five months deductions for state workers and secondary school teachers; six months gross salaries and six months deductions for local government workers and primary school teachers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 