Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre on Tuesday called on the National Assembly to stop approving foreign and domestic loan requests for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The group said the Buhari regime could not account for the loans already taken. The Executive Director of CISLAC, Auwal Musa-Rafsanjani, stated this at a news conference in Abuja. He alleged that a lot of funds borrowed by the All Progressives Congress -led government had been squandered without proper accountability. Musa-Rafsanjani also called on the National  Assembly to prevail on the executive to ensure  the recovery of misappropriated, and looted funds as indicated in various government reports. He noted that the 2018 findings and reports of Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiatives had shown that there were some agencies  in the extractive sector that had failed to remit  funds  due  to the Federation Account. He added that 265 agencies had also defaulted in  the submission of audited accounts for  2017, while 11 agencies had never submitted any  financial statements since inception. He said it was not in the best interest of Nigerians to be appropriating funds to agencies that had yet to account for funds it received over the years. He said, “We must  not  keep quiet we must speak  and put  a stop  to this  mindless  looting. Government  must  focus on blocking  the leakages, instead  of going  for  more  loans. “National Assembly  must  rise  and  put  a stop  to this; they have a responsibility  to rescue  the country. It is therefore  our hope  that National  Assembly  denies approval  of another loan  until  these  illicit  flows are accounted  for  and recovered.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 