John Alechenu, Abuja Governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress will at their meeting today (Tuesday) discuss how the party will raise funds for the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states. The PUNCH on Monday gathered that the governors and other leaders of the APC were determined to ensure the party’s victories at the two governorship elections. It was learnt besides discussing how funds would be mobilised for the party, the leaders at the meeting would come up with other strategies that would pave the way for the defeat of the Peoples Democratic Party and other members contesting the elections. Our correspondent gathered in Abuja on Monday that governors under the aegis of the Progressives Governors Forum will receive briefings from the Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, and his Niger State counterpart, Governor Abubakar Bello, who is the chairman of the Ondo APC reconciliation panel. A  source, who spoke to one of our correspondents in confidence, in Abuja, on Monday, said, “The Ondo and Edo state governorship elections will be the main thrust of the meeting. “The main task is to come up with strategies on how to reclaim Edo State and retain Ondo State. “We also need to raise funds for the two elections amidst all the challenges we are facing nationwide. For Edo, we no longer have the governor and his supporters, we have to raise funds to assist our candidate and we are running out of time. Two aspirants already jostling for deputy governorship slot “There is also a proposal to set up another small committee of governors to further explore the option of reconciliation among aspirants in Ondo State. “We will be reaching out to the Ondo State governor (Rotimi Akerodolu) also, because he will have to let us know what he is willing to concede. “We cannot afford to go into this election as a divided house. “There is the cheery news that at least two of the aspirants are already open to being considered as running mates.” It was also learnt that the Buni-led caretaker committee will be unveiling the membership of the APC primary election committee on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Buni-led APC caretaker committee on Monday handed over the report of its Screening Committee for the Ondo State Governorship primary to the Appeal Committee. READ ALSO: Ekiti APC splinters into factions as leaders fight dirty Although details of the screening committee were not made available to journalists, the Secretary of the APC caretaker committee, Senator John  Udoedehe, urged the appeal committee to do all within its power to ensure that the party didn’t repeat the errors that led to the loss of Bayelsa and other states. He told members of the appeal committee that the party under the leadership of Buni was more than ever before committed to taking the party to greater heights. In response, the chairman of the Appeal Committee, Umar Lawan-Kereto, said, “My committee will come with a very positive analysis of what was done by the screening committee. We will do our best. We thank you for seeing us fit to do this job and we will not let you down.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 