Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt The Youth President of the Nweol community in the Gokana Local Government Area of Rivers State, Bakor Barituka, has accused the Divisional Police Officer of the Kpor Police Division, Cletus Omoke, of burning down his family house. Barituka alleged that the DPO ordered his men to loot his family house before setting it ablaze on Sunday, July 5, 2002. The youth leader also alleged that the Bori Divisional Police Officer in the Khana Local Government Area of the state allegedly accompanied Omoke to carry out the action in the full glare of residents of the community. He added that the attack on his family house by the police was unprovoked and he had yet to understand what warranted it. Barituka stated, “I woke up early in the morning of Sunday, July 5, 2020, and saw the DPO of the Kpor Police Station and his counterpart from the Bori Division with about nine police vans; they moved into my community and my house and burned it down; they also destroyed many economic trees and went away with my valuables, including a knitting machine, two generators, my phone, upholstery and everything; other things in that house were looted by them. “Later, they went away with the looted items before burning the entire family house of about eight bedrooms. I tried to enquire from Omoke, but he did not respond to me. “The DPO has never invited me for any wrong doing and I refused to honour his invitation; the only thing I saw was the total destruction of our property. My father is a retired principal and everything he had, including his certificates as well as mine were burnt inside the house. “I don’t know why the DPO did that to us; people have tried to meet him to know why, but he refused to make any comment on it; so I want people to come to my aid and help me to inquire from Omoke what I did to him. “I could not report the matter to the police, because the persons I was supposed to report to are the ones who did this to me; as it is now, I don’t know where to run to. I need justice to be done in this matter.” When contacted by PUNCH Metro, Omoke denied the allegations against him. However, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, said the command was investigating the incident and would give a comprehensive report on the matter today (Tuesday). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 