Umar Muhammed, Lafia Gunmen, numbering about five, on Sunday invaded the residence of the Personal Assistant to the Chairman of the Nasarawa State Universal Basic Education Board, Mr Jibrin Daddare, and abducted him. A resident of Daddare town in the Obi Local Government Area of the state, Mr Abdullahi Daddare, told PUNCH Metro, “The five gunmen stormed the residence of Jibrin around 9pm, shot in the air, gained entry through the kitchen and kidnapped the staff member of the Nasarawa State Universal Basic Education Board.” Investigation by our correspondent revealed that the kidnappers had contacted the family of the victim and demanded N10m as ransom. It was gathered that tension had enveloped the area as residents were said to have started relocating from the town and taking refuge near the police out post in the area for safety. Abdullahi said soldiers had visited the victim’s residence. A civil servant, Mr Shittu Umar, who is a deputy chief of the area court, was abducted last Wednesday and has yet to be found. Confirming the incidents to our correspondent, the Chairman, Obi Local Government Council, Mr Mohammed Iyamoga, said he had summoned an emergency security meeting to ensure that the victims were released unconditionally. “I have already summoned a security meeting to see how the victims can regain their freedom,” he stated. Meanwhile, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, has reiterated the commitment of the Nigerian Army to bringing to an end kidnapping and other criminal activities in Nasarawa State. Buratai said this while distributing COVID-19 palliatives to over 500 vulnerable persons at the Emir of Doma’s palace in the Doma Local Government Area of the state. The Commandant, 4 Special Forces Command, Doma, Maj. Gen. Moundhey Ali, who presented the items to the beneficiaries on behalf of the CoAS, said the aim was to identify with the underprivileged and touch their hearts as well as to extend the army’s hand of friendship to the entire Doma chiefdom. Buratai stated, “We are battle ready to deal with any form of crime and criminality, and to also bomb any camp or house suspected as being used for banditry or kidnapping activities. “Bandits should relocate from Nasarawa State. The state is not for you. We are here to protect the lives and property of the good people of Nasarawa State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 