Olalekan Adetayo and Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Sunday congratulated Kamarudeen Usman on the successful defence of his Ultimate Fighting Championship welterweight title against American Jorge Masvidal, saying his victory lifted the spirits of Nigerians despite the outbreak of COVID-19. Buhari’s congratulatory message was contained in a statement made available to journalists by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina. The statement was titled “President Buhari congratulates Kamaru Usman for retaining UFC title.” Usman retained the title with an emphatic win over Jorge Masvidal. Buharu said Usman the victory further proved that things would get better when everyone remained committed to the nation’s vision. The statement read, “As the first African-born and Nigerian UFC champion, Presisent Buhari commends the courageous fighter for finishing strong inside the Octagon, proudly flying the green and white colours in distant lands, and reminding the world that good things and great people still come out of Nigeria. “While the global COVID-19 pandemic may have brought gloom to many families and nations, the President is delighted and gratified that our welterweight champion has lifted our spirits with another professional performance, proving that things will surely get better at the fullness of time when we remain committed to our vision. “The President wishes Usman the very best and more victories in his career and prays that like fine wine, he improves with age.” Also, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, hailed Usman for successfully defending his title. In a statement on Sunday by his spokesman, Lanre Lasisi, titled ‘Gbajabiamila hails Kamaru Usman for defending UFC title,’ the Speaker said Usman’s action had once again showed the world that Nigerians, wherever they find themselves, were capable of taking up any challenge. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  