Ife Ogunfuwa Manufacturers with factories situated in industrial clusters around Apapa, Epe and Badagry Expressway have expressed concerns over the closure of the third mainland bridge. The manufacturers under the aegis of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Apapa Branch, in a statement on Thursday, said alternative roads for commuters were in a state of partial closure. The Chairman,  MAN, Apapa Branch, Frank Onyebu, appealed to the government to delay commencement of work on the Third Mainland Bridge until some of the alternative access routes had been completed and opened to traffic. He identified the close alternative routes to include Eko bridge and Apapa bridge. Onyegbu said, “We, however, must draw the attention of the governor to some of our concerns. The number one on the list is the proposed partial closure of the Third Mainland Bridge. “While we commend the government’s plan to repair the bridge, we believe that the timing is wrong. “This bridge being a major link connecting the mainland to the island is one of the key life wires of the economy. “Our concern arises from the fact that some of the alternative access routes are also in some form of partial closure. These include Eko Bridge by Costain roundabout, Apapa Bridge by Ijora, etc.” Onyegbu acknowledged the efforts of the Lagos State government in catering to the  residents of Lagos despite the challenges facing the government during this difficult time. He expressed appreciation to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his team for their giant strides in the area of infrastructural development, security provision, environmental protection and prudent financial management, among others. “We are well aware of the revenue shortfalls that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic, which makes the effort of the government all the more commendable,” the MAN chairman said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com