Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, on Friday, condoled with the Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Kukah, over the death of his mother, Janet aged 86. The former President in a condolence message by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, described the deceased as a “worthy gift to Nigeria and humanity.” Obasanjo said Kukah’s love and attention that he gave to his mother while alive enabled her to live for as long as she did. The statement read in part, “I commend her great sense of family, particularly at this time when the foundations of the family are threatened by all sorts of distractions. “That she lived so long is proof that, on your part, you loved and honoured your mother as God commands us to do. “Having shared in the passion and death of our Lord, may God grant her sharing in the kingdom with Christ after His resurrection. “As we mourn your mother, may God grant us all that she has left behind the grace to cease to live for ourselves and live for Him, who for our sake died and was raised to life.” Obasanjo also prayed for the healing of the people amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He said, “I pray that God, who is the physician of men and of nations, the restorer of the years that have been destroyed, may look upon the distractions of our country and the divisions of our people and be pleased to stretch forth His healing hand and draw all of us unto Him and to one another by the hands of His love so that, as one united country, we may fulfil His purpose and glorify His name. “On behalf of my family and on my own behalf, we pray that God grant mama’s (Janet) soul perfect rest and that He may continue to guide, protect, preserve and guard you as mama’s offspring for the benefit of family, community, nation, and humanity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com