Ife Ogunfuwa Online retail businesses have received a major boost this year due to restriction of movement and the need to observe social distancing to control the spread of coronavirus. Findings showed that many Nigerian retail businesses introduced online orders and doorstep delivery of goods and services to customers during the total lockdown that was introduced to contain the virus. Many fintech companies that have seen the opportunities in the rising demand for online orders and delivery have diversified by creating online marketplace for retail businesses. Flutterwave in May, when the lockdown was eased, launched an e-commerce store that was designed to enable small businesses to have an online directory for displaying and taking orders for their products. On the platform, Flutterwave said users could upload products, set prices and, in some cases, enlist its delivery partners to pick up and deliver orders to customers. The company also promised to provide $15,000 in Amazon Web Services credit to tech-enabled businesses that needed cloud storage. Flutterwave is just one out of five other technology companies that are combining their payment platforms with online retail solutions. Others are Remita, Paystack, GTBank, and OPay, and they have already developed social commerce products in the past six months. Paystack, one of Nigeria’s payment gateways start-ups, launched its new e-commerce platform in June. The Head of Growth at Paystack, Emmanuel Quartey, in a blog post, said when COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the world, the company saw a greater need and urgency for a new generation of tools to help African brands sell online. He said the company had been studying the e-commerce experience of Africans for the last two years. “After months of learning and iteration, we’re excited to share our vision for online commerce. We’re thrilled to announce Paystack Commerce, a toolkit that helps African creators bring ideas to market beautifully,” he said. The incumbents in the e-commerce space, Jumia and Konga, acknowledged that online sales had increased since the lockdown commenced in selected states. Jumia, in a statement to shareholders, noted that as traditional offline distribution channels had been affected by confinement measures, a number of sellers sought new routes to market and had turned to the company to reach consumers online. Despite the rising interest in e-commerce, payment for goods and services online via the Nigerian Interbank Settlement Scheme Central Payment gateway declined by 36 per cent from N2.48bn recorded in the first five months in 2019 to N1.60bn in the corresponding period this year. The Central Payment, according to NIBSS, plugs in to new and existing merchant websites and was designed to be a bridge between a merchant’s website and banks to process payment transactions. Also, Visa, in its COVID-19 CEMEA Impact Tracker, highlighted the effect, the coronavirus pandemic on commerce for consumers and small merchants in Nigeria. The findings of the report showed that during the pandemic, many consumers in Nigeria started shopping online for the first time for essentials. About 71 per cent of consumers surveyed said that COVID-19 had led to their first online grocery purchase, while 69 per cent made their first online purchase from pharmacies. The findings indicated a shift towards online commerce, with cash transactions being replaced by digital payments. According to the report, 55 per cent of consumers admitted to be spending less now. Commenting on the findings, the Vice President, Visa West Africa, Kemi Okusanya, said, “The findings of the COVID-19 CEMEA Impact Tracker suggest shoppers have changed how they shop and this is already having a major impact on how merchants do business.” According to her, these changes present challenges as well as enormous opportunities for all merchants, including small businesses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com