John Alechenu, Abuja A group under the aegis of the All Progressives Congress, National Executive Committee Integrity Group, has written A formal letter to the Party’s Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee to present members of its executive and Board of Trustees. The APC NEC Integrity Group said this in a letter titled: “APC NEC integrity Group writes Governor Buni-led Caretaker Committee, Presents Leadership Structure”, dated July 1, 2020, jointly-signed by Abubakar Sadiq Saadu (Chairman) and David Okumba (Secretary), addressed to Governor Mai Mala Buni, the National Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee. The statement partly read, “The group described the emergence of Mai Mala Buni, the Yobe State governor, to chair the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee as a well thought out move. “The group assured the Gov. Mai Mala led Caretaker Committee of its support and readiness to work with the Committee in order to restore the party to its prime status.” As NEC members we are always ready and available for the Caretaker Committee and shall support the committee in whichever way required in the cause of steering the party’s affairs….” It listed members of its executive to include: 1. Hon. Abubakar Sadiq Saadu – North West (Chairman)
2. Dr. Mrs. Racheal Akpabio – South South (Deputy Chairman)
3. David Okumgba – South South (Secretary)
4. Abubakar A. Musa – North East (Asst. Secretary)
5. Lawal Kolade – South West (Treasurer)
6. Terver Aginde – North Central (Organization/Mobilization)
7. Hon. Muhammed S. Ibrahim – North West (Publicity/Strategic Communication)
8. Barr. Tanko Zakari – North Central (Legal Adviser)
9. Muhammad Azare – North East (Welfare)
10. Nduka Anyanwu – South East (Auditor)
11. Bolaji Repete Hafeez – South West (Dep. Publicity/Strategic Communications)
12. Hon. Ihuoma Onyebuchukwu – South East (Deputy Treasurer)
13. Abubakar Ajiya – North East (Coordinator)
14. Abdulmunaf Muh’d – North West (Coordinator)
15. John Uwaedu – South East (Coordinator)
16. Adie Ferdinand Atsu – South South (Coordinator)
17. Jock Alamba – North Central (Coordinator) Board of Trustees (BoT)
1. Alh. Nasiru Danu – North West (Chairman)
2. Sunday Jacob C. – South East (Secretary)
3. Chief Koteteh Ibadan – South South (Member)
4. Alh. Zakari Muhammad – North Central (Member)
5. Alh. Shuaibu Abdulrahaman – North East (Member) The group expressed gratitude to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), over the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led APC National Working Committee.