Afeez Hanafi After being abandoned on the street and rejected by three orphanages due to cerebral palsy, love has finally found the little girl whose plight was reported by PUNCH. She is currently at a home, Centre for Destitute Empowerment International, in the Idimu area of Lagos through the intervention of a non-governmental organisation, Caring Friends Foundation. Our correspondent had reported last Sunday that the girl, who could neither talk nor walk, was abandoned in front of a shop on Tajudeen Bello Street, Giwa Oke-Aro Road, Ogun State, by her parents on June 24. She was initially rescued by the Iju Police Station but returned to the spot two days after. The Divisional Police Officer, Agbado Police Station, SP Kehinde Yero, later led a team to the scene to rescue the girl whose name was unknown. She was said to have been taken to three orphanages in Ogun and Lagos states but was rejected, thereby spending nights in the police station. After the incident was published by Sunday PUNCH, our correspondent received calls from different groups, indicating interest to take custody of the girl said to be about five years old. The foundation in collaboration with a home in Idimu eventually agreed to take care of the child and named her Comfort. Medical tests were also conducted for her with the aid of another organisation, Adoka Home. An executive member of the foundation, Mrs Temitope Osobu, told our correspondent that catering to persons in Comfort’s situation was the major goal of the foundation. She said, “We knew about the girl through a story published in PUNCH. An executive member shared the story with us on Sunday. We contacted the DPO that evening and he explained to us what happened. We work with some homes. We visit them and ask for their needs and give them whatever we can afford. “We contacted one of the homes, Centre for Destitute Empowerment International and the owner gave us some criteria for accepting her. The DPO shared some medical tests carried out on the girl with us. We did documentation and on Tuesday morning, we took her to the home. We have named our new found princess Comfort and she fits perfectly into our ‘One Child A Time’ project which we have always nurtured. “A policeman went with us to make sure she is in good hands. It is a big achievement for us. We advocate for people living with this kind of disability because there is a lot of stigmatisation against them.” Osobu promised that the foundation would support the home at regular intervals to ensure Comfort was nurtured alongside other residents of the home. “We named her Comfort, because even in her lonely moments, God raised help and sent her comfort,” she added. The owner of the home, Pastor Samson Okoliko on Thursday told Sunday PUNCH that Comfort was doing fine and receiving medical care. He said, “She is okay. She has been treated for fever and malaria. Other children have been trying to bond with her. The issue is that she is not talking but we hope there will be change as time goes on.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com