Nike Popoola The United Bank for Africa Plc said on Monday that it had appointed six new country chief executive officers. The pan-African financial services group disclosed this in a statement, entitled ‘UBA names six new country chiefs.’ The bank named Rokia Hacko, Chioma Mang, Chinedu Obeta, Bode Aregbesola, Kingsley Ulinfun and Usman Isiaka as CEOs of six of its 20 subsidiaries across Africa, subject to regulatory approvals. It stated that the new CEOs would drive the group’s strategy and activities in Mali, Uganda, Zambia, Senegal, Tanzania and Sierra Leone respectively. The bank also said Ogechi Altraide had been named the group’s new head of retail banking, while Amadao Konate has been appointed head of treasury and international payments for UBA America. It said these international appointments complemented the prior appointments of Sola Yomi-Ajayi as the CEO of UBA America, and Patrick Gutmann as the CEO of UBA UK. UBA said it earlier announced the appointment of Ayoku Liadi and Oliver Alawuba as deputy managing directors in charge of the group’s Nigeria and Africa businesses respectively. While commenting on the new appointments, UBA Group Chairman, Tony Elumelu said, “The appointments further reflect the strong growth of the group’s pan-African businesses, currently responsible for over 40 per cent of total group revenue, and the increasing importance of our international businesses in London, Paris and New York, offering superior treasury, trading and corporate banking solutions to clients globally. “We are committed to catalysing growth on the African continent and the new CEOs are taking up roles at a very exciting period, as the group executes its innovative digital play across the African continent.’’ The group also announced the appointment of new country executive directors, namely Haoua Cisse as the executive director, wholesale, UBA Mali and Julien Kouassi as executive director wholesale, UBA Côte D’Ivoire. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 