Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday lauded what he called China’s contributions towards the reversal of infrastructure deficit in Nigeria. He said such contributions were visible in the areas of rail, roads, airports and power. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President spoke while receiving the outgoing Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to Nigeria, Dr Zhou Pingjian, at a virtual farewell audience. The statement was titled “President Buhari lauds outgoing ambassador, says China playing great role in reversing Nigeria’s infrastructural deficit.” Buhari was quoted as saying that there was no way a country could develop if it was hampered by severe deficit in infrastructure. “Please convey our appreciation to President Xi Jinping for the contribution of China towards reversing the infrastructure deficit we suffer in the areas of rail, roads, airports and power. “There is no way a country can develop without these things,” the President was quoted as saying. Buhari added that China had played its role effectively in all the Memoranda of Understanding signed with Nigeria, “and we quite appreciate it.” The President said he had followed the “highly mobile” activities of Pingjian in the past four years, “and you have visited all our 36 states. I see you all over the media; you have the energy and health and you have performed effectively.” The outgoing Ambassador, who has been in Nigeria since September 2016, described his tour of duty as “highly rewarding time,” saying he appreciates the government and people of Nigeria greatly. “I have been privileged to visit all the 36 states of the country. I have seen the remarkable progress being made, and under your leadership, I am confident that Nigeria will fly higher,” Pingjian said. He added that in about 50 years of Nigeria-China relations, “this is the best time we have had”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  