John Alechenu and Armstrong Bakam The People’s Democratic Party in Bauchi state has described the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara as a “political prostitute” having defected from the party to the All Progressives Congress. The PDP state Chairman, Hamza Akuyam, stated this in an interview with journalists on Monday. He said that it was unfortunate that Dogara left the party pointing out that as Chairman, he will not want any of his members to leave. He said, “Dogara wanted to leave the party before now; so the issues he brought are just baseless issues. If he had a problem of the inflation of contracts and others, he ought to have met the governor and discuss with him. “Now, that he has left the PDP and he knew very well when he joined us in the runoff to the 2019 elections, he said the APC had failed the country, APC had done this and that so he had no reason to stay there. The only option he had then was for him to join the PDP which he said was better. Now this is a contradiction “What I term him is a political prostitute or a normadic politician who doesn’t stay in one place. “As a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, he did say that there was nothing more honourable for him than to leave our party, but I want to challenge him that what is more honourable is for him to resign the position he occupies.” Akuyam said that the position Dogara was occupying belongs to the PDP, challenging him to resign the position and come back and contest it again in any other party if he is worthy of his name. Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Walid Jibrin has said 2023 political calculations ahead of the  2023 elections was likely responsible for the exit of former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara from the PDP. Jibrin said this in a statement to the media in Abuja, on Monday. He said,  he received the news about the exit of the former Speaker with mixed feelings because the former Speaker failed to avail himself with conflict resolution mechanisms available within the PDP before deciding to leave. He said, “I am equally sorry for Dogara for not adhering to all avenues available in the party constitution for settlement of disputes or complaints by a member of the party.” The BoT chairman also said he became more disturbed when he read reasons given by Dogara for his decamping considering his position as a former speaker. He also noted that the Dogara never raised any of the issues with him even though he, himself was a member of the PDP BoT. READ ALSO: Buhari names railway stations after Awolowo, Tinubu, others Jibrin said, “Considering seriously reasons given by Dogara for his decamping one is compelled to say that Mr. Dogara has other strong reasons for leaving PDP. “I’m beginning to suspect that former speaker has an underground motive for joining the APC “I begin to suspect that Mr. Dogara has a plan of becoming president or Vice President in 2023 which he knows he will never archive in PDP.” “I want to assure the former speaker that PDP shall continue to be very strong and united.” and it’s doors remain open to all Nigerians therefore PDP will never accept any plan from anybody to destroy the party.“ He announced plans by the BoT and party leadership to visit Edo State to join in strengthening the Godwin Obaseki campaign in order to consolidate the gains so far recorded by his administration in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 