Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, on Sunday, alleged that at least 22 persons were killed following a three-day attack by gunmen on communities in Southern Kaduna. The local governments under attack, according to SOKAPU, are Kauru, Zango-Kataf and Kajuru, despite the 24-hour-curfew imposed on two of them by the state government. SOKAPU’s National Public Relations Officer, Luka Binniyat, alleged in the statement that all the attacks were carried out by suspected Fulani militia. SOKAPU appealed to the state government to provide succour for those displaced by the attack. The statement read in part, “Under an ongoing 24-hours rigidly imposed curfew, in the early hours of Friday, July 10, 2020, around 1.30am, Fulani herdsmen militia invaded a farming community called Chibob in the Atyap Chiefdom, Gora ward of the Zangon Kataf Local Government Area. “This unprovoked attack ended in the massacre of nine Atyap natives, mostly women and children. “The invaders also burnt down over 20 houses, destroyed farmlands, rustled 24 cattle and other livestock, and looted foodstuffs. “As the curfew persisted, on Saturday, these Fulani continued their attacks. In particular, they attacked the Kigudu community, which is close to Chibob, located at the boundary between Zangon Kataf and Kauru LGAs. “This led to the death of 10 women, an infant and an old man, who were burnt to death inside a house they had taken refuge in. “Some of the corpses were burnt to ashes. Four homes were razed. This brought the death toll to 12 in that community. “With the curfew still in rigid enforcement, Anguwan Audu, a Surubu village, still under Gora ward, was invaded this morning of July 12, 2020, during which the village was looted and burnt and one person killed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 