Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigeria Electricity Liability Management Company on Monday said it would sell 216 non-core assets of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria in phases. It disclosed this on the sidelines of a visit by the Senate Committee on Power to the Head Office Annex of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company. NELMCO’s responsibility is to hold the non-core assets of the defunct PHCN, sell/dispose of or deal in any manner for the purpose of financing the payment of debts or other related matter. The company’s Managing Director, Adebayo Fagbemi, told journalists in Abuja that the agency had advertised the first phase of the non-core assets for sale. He said, “The idea is that we do them in phases. You can’t put everything in the market. And the reason is that one of the key requirements in Procurement Act is that you offload at the time you have the best of value. “Also, it is to ensure that you get the value as at the current period, for valuation is actually periodic. So the first phase of assets that we are bringing out for sale are 52 in number. “There is a second batch that we are working on now of about 106. Then there will be a third batch of about 58. So when you add all these you get the total stock of assets.” He said only non-core assets were to be disposed of, adding that the building occupied by a branch of AEDC fell under this category. The non-core assets include buildings, jetties, lands, golf course, guest houses, Fagbemi stated. The Managing Director, AEDC, Ernest Mupwaya, said his firm was indebted to NELMCO in terms of rent payments totaling about N40m monthly since November 2013. He, however, noted that the AEDC was in talks with NELMCO on how to settle the debts and acquire some of the non-core assets up for sale. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 