’Tosin Oluwalowo Nigerian football agents say the prospects of playing for top European sides is the major reason why a large number of the country’s up-and-coming prefer playing for academies to play for Nigerian leagues clubs. Football academies have been the latest exit point for Nigerian players seeking to join top European clubs, with Golden Eaglets captain to the 2019 U-17 World Cup in Brazil, Samson Tijani earlier this month sealing a lucrative move to Austrian champions, Red Bull Salzburg, from Lagos-based academy, Collins Edwin Sports Club. Super Eagles trio, Samuel Chukwueze, Wilfred Ndidi, and Kelechi Iheanacho sealed moves to big European clubs from local academies. While Chukwueze joined Spanish LaLiga side Villarreal from Umuahia-based Diamond Football Academy, Ndidi joined Belgian Pro League side, Genk, from Nath Boys Academy of Lagos, with Iheanacho moving directly to Manchester City from Taye Academy of Owerri. A look at the present Eagles squad shows that only Ahmed Musa, Oghenekaro Etebo and Daniel Akpeyi played in the local league before moving abroad. While the list of Nigerians who have joined big European clubs from little-known academies is on the rise, Nigeria Professional Football League clubs, the nation’s flagship professional league, has struggled to Import quality talents to Europe. Those who move usually find themselves in the backwater leagues in Europe. Some agents, who spoke with our correspondent, said Nigerian league clubs paraded too many old players and expensive, which puts off European scouts. “Most NPFL clubs don’t have quality young players; they rely on older players with experience. NPFL clubs also put big money on the players. When you place $1m or $500,000 on a player, the club which wants the player will want to see his quality and age. For them to invest money, the player must be young. You can’t place $1m on a player that is 29 years when the clubs can get younger players from the academies,” an agent, Marshal Mbre, told The PUNCH. “Most NPFL coaches don’t take time to develop their players and teach them what they should know, because at a certain age, you can’t learn again. The clubs who claim they have feeder teams also place players who are relatives of government officials in the teams, they just keep them there to pay them allowances. I have gone to an NPFL club and the feeder team players are older than the first team players. They just take in players who are short and claim they are aged 15 or 16 when in fact they are older than the first team players,” he added. Another agent, Friday Kujah, stated, “Nigerian clubs pick players from academies and sign them on maybe a three-year deal, but when a foreign club shows interest in the player, they demand for between $300,000 and $1m. Nigerian league clubs are only using the players as personal properties and an avenue to make money. “Academy owners are ready to invest in players and train them to bring the best out of them but when NPFL clubs hear a player has trained, they will start making demands from the clubs.” Sunshine Stars chairman, Tajudeen Akinyemi, said NPFL clubs’ penchant for old players made it difficult for them to export talents to Europe’s top sides. “When the likes of Daniel Amokachi, Finidi George, Mutiu Adepoju left for European leagues, they left from our local league. But presently things are not working like they used to be, we are lucky that we still have academies that are producing talents,” Akinyemi told The PUNCH. “I once asked a player who came for trials in Sunshine his age and he replied me, ‘are asking for my football age or real age, sir?’ The difference between his real age and football age was nine years. So, clubs must ensure they recruit players who are really young, not old ones with fake ages. This is where we got it wrong; we must find a solution to this type of thing. And if we don’t do it, the NPFL will have a lot of problems.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 