Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The National Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress has admitted that it is facing challenges in its efforts at reconciling warring factions within the party. The panel, however, said the challenges were not unexpected considering the fact that the APC remained Nigeria’s ruling party. A member of the panel, Senator Yusuf Yusuf, told journalists in Abuja on Saturday that the committee was determined to restore peace in the party. Yusuf said, “When you are dealing with a challenging issue in the house, you will not say you have overcome them. “We are in the process of overcoming those challenges; we are in the process of talking to everybody that we know is very important. Secondly, we are not saying that the road ahead is not going to be as easy as we thought. It is a road that we will work so hard to overcome. “All the caucuses are working together to make sure that the party retains or brings back the glory it has lost over time. “We have extended our hands of fellowship to every member of the APC and work as a family for the progress and stability of the party. I’m not aware that any dissenting voice has gone to court. “We have all agreed as directed by the President that we should have all our cases withdrawn from the court and then move for full-blown reconciliation. Our team had met with Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, and you have all heard what he said. As far as he’s concerned, there is no division in the party. “It is democracy; there must be someone or two, who will say he or she doesn’t feel happy the way he is treated or the way the party is being managed, which the committee is ready to pacify. “We lost about seven states in the last general election and we will work to get them back and even add more in the spirit of togetherness. The APC is a ruling party. Whatever happens to the party will affect other political parties. Every party has its challenge, but the magnitude differs. “The bigger the party, the bigger the challenges. But we believe in the coming months that we will sort out the challenges,” he added. He assured party members that the panel was working towards ensuring victory for the APC in the upcoming governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states. Yusuf, who represents the Senate in the APC caretaker committee, said the panel had been working with the executive and stakeholders of the party in both states in order to guarantee unity before the governorship elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 