Temiloluwa O’Peters The Chief Executive, Purple, developers of Maryland Mall, Mr Laide Agboola, has said the company is committed to the development of large projects that will serve diverse economic purposes. According to a statement issued by the company on Thursday, Agbola spoke on the fourth anniversary of the commissioning of Maryland Mall. He stated that the shopping hotspot was a retail and entertainment centre in Lagos, and played host to a mix of local and international brands including Shoprite, Genesis Deluxe Cinemas, Stanbic IBTC Bank, Uber, Workstation, Medplus, Miniso, PEP among retail, hospitality and entertainment brands. He said, “The Maryland Mall is a redevelopment of the Maryland Business Plaza seating on a 7,700 sqm piece of land and located on the ever-busy Ikorodu Road, Lagos. “The construction of the iconic mall began in September 2014 and was open to the public in 2016. “The mall contains three floors with a mezzanine, about 50 stores and hoists on its external façade the largest outdoor screen in sub Saharan Africa spanning 550 square meters, a unique feature that sets it apart from any other retail centre in Nigeria.” He expressed pride in the achievements of the mixed-use centre till date. Agboola praised the discipline, focus and resilience of the partners, occupants and everyday customers at the centre, appreciating the value created over the years. He stated, “The successes of Maryland Mall showcase the fact that domestic investment fuelled by the indefatigable spirit of Nigerian entrepreneurs is key to driving national economic growth. “We are proud to be supporting the retail and entertainment industry and creating lifestyle experiences for Lagosians on that axis.” He added, “We are leveraging on the success of this flagship project to grow our footprints in retail, entertainment and lifestyle by delivering similar assets within the next few years. “This we have started with the development of a new mixed-use centre in Lekki, Lagos. “This is a bigger development; occupying about 10,000 sqm and a few floors which will be mixed use – retail, entertainment, serviced accommodation, and private offices.” He added that the success of the Maryland Mall gave the company the confidence to go for more. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 