Sampson Itode Supporters of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and Senator Magnus Abe in Rivers State have clashed again over a directive calling for the closure of the All Progressives Congress secretariat in the state. A faction of the Rivers APC led by Igo Aguma, on Saturday, directed that all factional secretariats of the party in the state be shut immediately. Aguma, who was been declared the acting Caretaker Committee Chairman by the Rivers State High Court in June, said he gave the directive after sending a situation report to the National Caretaker Committee Chairman of the party, Mai Bala Buni, on the activities of the APC in the state. In a statement by his media aide, Livingston Nwechie, he noted that the actions of Dr Sokonte Davies in running a splinter group within the party hampered the reconciliation process and was inimical to the party’s growth in the state. The caretaker chairman added that he had written to the NCC chairman informing him of the state of Rivers APC. He said, “The splinter group in Rivers APC, anchored by Mr Sokonte Davies, is strongly advised to immediately comply with the directive of the State Caretaker Committee of the party to shut down all factional secretariats in the state, including his own at 63 Aba Road, Port Harcourt. While reacting, the acting Publicity Secretary of the APC in Rivers, Ogbonna Nwuke, who is believed to be loyal to Amaechi, said Aguma, having been suspended from the party, lacked the capacity to call for the closure of the recognised secretariat of the APC in Rivers. Nwuka said, “Igo Aguma, having been suspended by 28 out of 38 statutory members, has lost the right to make any comments concerning the activities of the APC.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    