Possible indication that COVID-19 has entered the community transmission mode in Nigeria is in the following statement credited to Gbenga Omotoso, Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy: “The number of tests being conducted presently when compared to what we did in the early stages of the (COVID-19) pandemic, has shown incredibly significant growth. Alongside that has come certain challenges… With rapid growth has come glitches which we recognise, and are striving to overcome.” The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and state governments must increase the number of laboratories to enable citizens to quickly check their COVID-19 status, so that treatment can commence in earnest, if found to be positive. Community transmission or spread is when there is no clear source of origin or spread of a disease in a new community; you can no longer identify who became infected after being exposed to someone who interacted with people with the originally infected communities. A report adds that community spread in America, for example, occurs when people who did not have any known contact with others from well-known hotpots of the outbreak in America, got infected. The spread has become random. A bulk SMS from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control aptly describes the situation: “COVID-19 spreads easily, even by those showing no symptoms. When you hug, shake hands, or share items with others, you risk being infected.” So, your parent, child, friend, business associate, pastor, imam, vendor, messenger, and cleaner who dusts the table in your office, can all be disease-bearing vectors. Everyone is a suspect. Following is the mechanics of the spread of COVID-19 in India: Stage 1: Imported Case: People who have travelled to countries with COVID-19, and brought it back to their immediate communities in India. Stage 2: Local transmission: The first group of people to be in close contact with those who brought the disease from abroad. Stage 3: Community transmission: At this stage, the disease has permeated so that no one can trace the spread to any one person. Stage 4: The Epidemic: This is the stage the disease grips the entire country or community. To borrow a word from international civil servants, after they have successfully sold a concept to a country, the disease becomes “domesticated.” An analogy, from the field of communication, can be employed to explain the phenomenon. That is the communication theory of “Diffusion of Innovation,” developed by communication scholar, Everett Rogers, in 1962. The theory avers that adoption means that a person does something differently than what they had previously done. Rogers identified five adopter categories, that may explain how COVID-19 cascaded into the Nigerian community. Innovators, the first to try an innovation. This would be the category of expatriates and Nigeria’s political and business elite, with the means to travel to Europe and North America frequently, and so were the first to contract COVID-19. The Early Adopters, opinion leaders, who readily embrace change, are the friends and associates of this group. They are the first recipients. The Early Majority adopt new ideas before the average persons. They relate frequently with those who relate frequently with the political and business elites. You are looking at especially the staff of the first two categories, medical personnel who treat the early patients. The same goes for the bulk of senior civil servants and business executives, even diplomats, and journalists, who must perforce relate with the political leaders, in the course of taking care of their own businesses. The Late Majority are sceptical of the changes, but will eventually adopt them. Think of the junior to middle level company staff, market mammies, students, bus drivers and conductors, your mechanics, and city commuters who do not have their private vehicles and mode of transport. This is where the bulk of the population is; the main theatre of everyday interaction. This is where community transmission is a “staple,” where most of the infections take place. This is the critical point that requires full attention and action. It is important to stress that the entire Nigerian urban space is likely to be at this stage. And, though there may be no empirical research to confirm this, it is in the best interest of everyone to act as if it was. To be forewarned is to be forearmed. The Laggards are the conservative people, bound by tradition, and are therefore the hardest people to convince to convert to a new idea. But they eventually do. And, when they do, it means the idea has diffused into the community significantly. For COVID-19 patients, represented by this category, you are referring to the bucolics, who are both physically and socially removed from the urban dwellers. They reside mostly in the rural areas. It takes time before they contract the disease. But when they do, it’s usually at an epidemic level; and, just as they are slow adopters, they are also slow to get medical help. They are generally out of the loop of early infection and adequate medical attention. Maybe, the communication specialists and the medical professionals on the COVID-19 team can adopt the mechanics explained above to develop models of communication and health-care delivery system to combat the dreadful and merciless disease. In a declaration of concern on behalf of his Tony Blair Institute for Global Change, former British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, is probably suggesting that the whole, or most of, Africa is in the community transmission mode, and no one knows the extent and gravity. Here is an excerpt from soundbite from his video talk: “It’s almost five months since Africa had its first COVID-19 case. And there’s still huge uncertainty as to the true path of the disease. Right now, the figures on death and confirmed cases are low… “The question is, to what is this (low figure) attributable to… It could be that Africa is not recording all its deaths, is not doing enough testing. And it could be that the worst is yet to come. We don’t know… “What we propose are a series of very simple and basic measures… (Like) establishing the right data on what is happening within the country, and… making sure that there’s testing in order that we see the (dispersal of) prevalence of the disease in the country, and in local communities.” Do not take these words of Prime Minister Blair with levity or disdain. This COVID-19 is a Stealth Bomber, whose way and path “is a befuddlement,” to borrow a phrase from Actor Yul Bruner, who acted the part of the oriental king, in the movie, “The King and I.” This disease moves in mysterious ways, and one can never be too careful with the precautions of social distancing and shielding, which includes wearing of nose masks, washing your hands with soap and sanitiser. Anyone who still thinks COVID-19 is a myth, far removed from him, and will catch only some “distant” compatriots, must be doing a rethink of his mode of engagement with even his significant others, moving forward. COVID-19 is here, and now. The way out is for Nigerians, you inclusive, to start practising social distancing, shielding, taking immunity-boosters, and go check their COVID-19 status. Doctors should say if government should pay attention to the physician, Dr. Stella Emmanuel, who claims, “There’s a cure for COVID(-19).” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 