Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has again dumped the opposition Peoples Democratic Party for the ruling All Progressives Congress. Announcing the development to State House correspondents on Friday, the chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee, Mai Mala Buni, said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was happy seeing Dogara return to the party. Dogara, alongside former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, and some governors had left the APC for the PDP ahead of the 2019 general election. But Buni led him to a meeting with Buhari on Friday to announce his return to the APC. Dogara, who is still a member of the House of Representatives, however, refused to speak with State House correspondents. Buni told reporters that they were at the Presidential Villa for a courtesy visit to the President in continuation of their efforts to rebuild the party and to brief him on developments in the party. When reporters talked about people expressing surprise that Dogara accompanied him to meet the President, Buni said, “They shouldn’t be surprised because the former Speaker is a member of the APC and it is because the reason why he left the APC is no more there.” When asked to be specific if Dogara has returned to the party, replied, “Yes, he’s back.” The Yobe governor further revealed that Buhari was happy with the development. “He (the President) welcomed him. He is happy with the development. That is what he’s looking for. “We are rebuilding the party and these are the steps we are taking towards rebuilding the party.” Buni disclosed that members of his caretaker committee are meeting all aggrieved members, particularly those who are interested in returning to the party. He assured those willing to return that justice would be served to all members, therefore guaranteeing peaceful coexistence. “That is what will bring the consolidation of the party, the rebuilding of the party. Without doing justice, you cannot achieve that and we are sure of doing justice to all our members,” he said. Buni said the reconciliation efforts were not only about the politics of 2023. He said, “We are rebuilding the party to outlive all of us. “It is not only about specific time or period, it is not about election, it is not about electioneering. It is about building a party.”