Eniola Akinkuotu and Wale Oyewale Fatima Ganduje-Ajimobi, the daughter of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, says Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, will never surpass the achievements of the late ex-Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi. Fatima, who is married to Ajimobi’s son, Idris, said this in a tweet in response to a post by Segun Awosanya aka @Segalink on Tuesday. Awosanya had tweeted, “I don’t know how many people are glad to know that Seyi Makinde, the Governor of Oyo State, cannot be guilt-tripped into endorsing a heist wrapped in emotions at the expense of the beleaguered people of Oyo State. I’m personally happy he saw through the shenanigans.” In her response, however, Fatima tweeted, “Lol. Face with tears of joy half truth is dangerous sha! SM can never ever, ever come close to Ajimobi. Not your mate!!!” The Ajimobi family has been engaged in a feud with Makinde since the death of their patriarch last week. Ajimobi’s widow, Florence, had last week accused Makinde of abandoning the family. The family had accused the governor of refusing to give them the approval to bury their late father on a parcel of land in Ibadan. But Makinde said the land in question was a subject of litigation and thus could not allow Ajimobi to be buried there. Florence also accused the governor of being insensitive and refusing to condole with the family when Ajimobi died. Meanwhile, the Oyo State House Assembly on Tuesday held a special session in Ajimobi’s honour. The Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, who described Ajimobi’s demise as very sad, said, “Ajimobi was endowed with supernatural wisdom and intelligence in the virtues which he displayed in his contribution to the governance of the state in particular and the nation in general. “He was a statesman of note as he served as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and governor of Oyo State for two consecutive terms. Hence, he became the ‘Koseleri’ governor. “As the helmsman of the state, he embarked on infrastructural development across the state. He was an amiable and humorous personality. He impacted positively on so many lives, especially his political associates.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 