Sampson Itode and Denise Naku, Port Harcourt A faction of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State, led by Igo Aguma, has on Saturday directed that all factional secretariats of the party in the state be shut immediately. Aguma, the Acting State Caretaker Committee Chairman, gave the directive after sending a situation report to the National Caretaker Committee Chairman of the party, Mai Bala Buni, detailing him on the activities of the APC in Rivers state. Aguma, in a statement signed by him and issued his media aide, Livingston Nwechie, said, Sokonte Davies’ action in running a splinter group in the state chapter of the APC, was further destroying the party and hampering the reconciliation process. He said, “As the Acting Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers state, I have submitted a situation report to the National Caretaker Committee of the Party led by His Excellency, Alhaji Mai Bala Buni. The report which is comprehensive is with respect to the activities of the party in Rivers state so far. “It also intimates the National Caretaker Committee on the effort of the Caretaker Committee under my watch to acquire a neutral Secretariat for the state chapter for a period where all factions will be comfortable to visit since the two factional Secretariats are not acceptable to either faction in the state. “The splinter group in the APC Rivers state anchored by Mr. Sokonte Davies is strongly advised to immediately comply with the directive of the state Caretaker Committee of the party to shut down all factional Secretariats in the state including his own at 63 Aba Road, Port Harcourt. Sokonte Davies is reminded along with his splinter group that their actions are not promoting peace and reconciliation efforts in the state chapter.” He added that he had informed the National Caretaker Committee Chairman about the continued litigation by some members of the party, contrary to the directive of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari to abort all pending lawsuits against party members. “The issues of further litigations by some members of the party were raised, which actions are contrary to the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari that all Court cases instituted by members of the party be withdrawn to pave the way for peace and reconciliation. “Surprisingly, immediately after the directive by the President and further directive by the National Caretaker Committee on the same subject via a letter, we were served by Appeal Court actions by some members of the Party including those who are using the name of the Party to litigate over Rivers state chapter.” In his reaction, the Acting Publicity Secretary of the APC in Rivers state, Ogbonna Nwuke, said having been suspended from the party, Aguma lacked the capacity to call for the closure of the recognised secretariat of the APC in Rivers. “Igo Aguma, having been suspended by 28 out of 38 statutory members, has lost the right to make any comments concerning the activities of the APC. We have long gone beyond such comments because the party has entered a new phase and members are thronging the party Secretariat as party activities have picked up. “The official secretariat of the APC is the one at 63 Aba Road and that is recognized by the National Secretariat of the party, there is no other secretariat that is known to APC national Secretariat other than 63 Aba road. Our advice to Igo is for him to join the mainstream and help provide a solution to the crisis which has bedeviled the APC before now.”