’Tosin Oluwalowo The Nigeria Football Federation has congratulated former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Ndubuisi Egbo, who won the Albanian league with KF Tirana, becoming the first Nigerian and African to lead a European club to a top tier domestic title. NFF in a statement by its communications department on Tuesday, which was made available to our correspondent, said the federation’s President, Amaju Pinnick, had already sent a message to the victorious Egbo, telling him how much they were proud of his “wonderful achievements”. The statement also said the federation sent a letter signed by the Secretary-General, Mohammed Sanusi to the victorious coach, praising him for his achievements. According to the NFF, the 46-year-old coach had always shown “rare character traits of sobriety, quiet confidence, seamless application and effortless brilliance” even while he was with the Super Eagles as a player. He was part of the Eagles squad to the 2000 and 2002 Africa Nations Cup campaigns. “It was with a huge sense of pride that the NFF and the entire Nigerian football family learnt of your exemplary achievement as the first-ever Nigerian, black and African coach to win a major European League, as you have steered KF Tirana to the Albanian top tier championship with few matches left in the on-going season. In the process, you also became the first African to qualify a team for the UEFA Champions League competition,” the NFF letter read. “The fact that KF Tirana was unable to win any silverware since the year 2018 until your arrival in December 2019 puts your accomplishment in proper perspective. “Certainly, your rare character traits of sobriety, quiet confidence, seamless application and effortless brilliance, so evident in your days with the  Super Eagles, steered you and your team to glory. This achievement is no doubt a marker for other Nigerian coaches, including your fellow ex-internationals, that by working assiduously and diligently in a noble way, they can indeed go out there and break the proverbial glass ceiling. “On our part, we wish you and KF Tirana an enriching and fulfilling experience in the UEFA Champions League, where you are bound to come across much tougher encounters, but you have already demonstrated that you have the capacity to be unflappable when the going gets tough,” the NFF added.