Friday Olokor, Abuja Barely one week after birthing in Abuja, a new political movement under the aegis of National Consultative Front on Wednesday set up a committee to curb the growing political tension heralding the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo States scheduled for September 19 and October 10 2020, respectively. The organisation being piloted by a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ghali Na’aba and two-time presidential candidate, Pat Utomi, also warned against violence saying that no political ambition was worth the blood and life of any soul. The members of its Interim Steering Council are Yabagi Sanni, Shehu Sanni, Shettima Yerima, Isa Aremu, Chidi Odinkalu, Kemi George, Remi Sonaya, Segun Osinowo, Sam Amadi, Nkoyo Toyo, Funke Awolowo, and Peter Ameh. The ISC also has Georgina Dakpokpo, Chris Ekiyor, Jude Feranmi, Rukaiya Muhammad, Habiba Balogun, Khadijat Abdullahi and Alistair Soyode as members. A statement issued in Abuja by NCFRONT’s protem Head of Publicity and former presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party, Tanko Yunusa, said the National Monitoring Tasks Forces would liaise with Local Intervention Groups for the forthcoming elections. According to him, the NCFRONT has embarked on grassroots leadership enlistment drive to enable Nigerians take effective ownership and control of emerging movement from the base of their localities and the grassroots. He said, “NCFRONT has decided to bow to its members and supporters in Edo and Ondo States to set up machineries towards curbing the growing political harakiri and tension around the forthcoming governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states respectively. “So, while noting the aspirations and efforts being made by the various parties and contestants in these elections, especially in ensuring that the forthcoming elections are fair to them, NCFRONT wishes to state clearly that no political ambition is worth the blood and life of any soul. “Consequently, the national leadership of NCFRONT in consultation with its promoters and supporters from Edo and Ondo States have set up a national monitoring task force to work with a Local Intervention Group in each of the states for the purpose of ensuring that the elections come out credible and fair to all parties in line with one of the strategic objectives of the NCFRONT to ensure equity and justice for all in Nigeria. “The task force to be inaugurated next week shall be expected to safeguard the integrity and credibility of the forthcoming elections as well as the sanctity of lives during the elections.”