John Alechenu and Peter Dada, Akure A governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, Chief Olusola Oke, on Friday said the primary election which Governor Rotimi Akeredolu won was designed from the beginning to favour the governor. He added that a group within the party, the Unity Forum, had yet to decide on whether or not to support Akeredolu in the October 10 governorship election. Oke, who was the consensus candidate of the forum for the party’s recent primary election, came second having scored 262 votes behind Akeredolu, who polled 2,458 votes. After the election, Akeredolu visited some of the aspirants who lost to him during the primary, including Oke, seeking their support in the governorship election. But while addressing journalists during a meeting of the forum and members of the Olusola Oke Campaign Organisation at his residence in Akure, the state capital, Oke said the groups had been meeting on the next line of action after the primary. He said, “From the beginning, it was clear to us that the primary had been slanted to favour the emergence of the incumbent. Notwithstanding this, as loyal party members and knowing the damage it will cause the party, we decided to participate in the primary. “While we were here (in his house) on Tuesday expressing our opinions, the incumbent governor visited me in this house and made some overtures, urging me to prevail on my supporters to work together and deliver for the APC. I told him I have to inform my supporters and leaders first; that I can’t take the decision alone.’’ Ondo deputy governor won’t leave PDP – Aide After losing the primary of the Peoples Democratic Party, the campaign organisation of the Ondo State Deputy Governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi, has declared that the deputy governor remains in the party, despite the loss. Ajayi lost to a former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Mr Eyitayo Jegede, in the party primary held on Wednesday in Akure. The Director-General of the Agboola Ajayi Campaign Organisation, Dr Kola Ademujimi, in a statement on Friday, declared that the deputy governor was not leaving the PDP. In the statement titled ‘Press Statement,’ the organisation said Ajayi had displayed maturity on the face of provocation and campaign of calumny during the primary. Ademujimi said, “He (Ajayi) proved that he is a grass roots politician by polling 657 votes, coming second in a contest among seven other aspirants, barely 30 days after rejoining the PDP.’’ Meanwhile, the Deputy Senate Leader, Ajayi Boroffice, has congratulated Governor Rotimi Akeredolu for his victory at the party’s primary. Why I should be supported to win – Jegede The Ondo State PDP governorship candidate, Mr Eyitayo Jegede, on Friday said all politicians who believe in the development of the state would support him to win the governorship election in the state. Jegede emerged the candidate of the party in the last Wednesday primary election after defeating seven other contestants. Speaking on Crest FM, Akure, on Friday, the PDP candidate said he had no quarrel with his former boss and the state former governor, Dr Olusegun Mimiko. He said the former governor and other notable politicians would support him to win. He added, “I will choose to be soft on the side of the people. I am prepared to be soft. I have the character and nobody will influence me to move against the people.” South-West APC caucus meet in Osogbo South-West caucus of the APC on Friday resolved to reposition the party in the region ahead of the party’s National Convention and to rally support for Akeredolu. Osun State Governor and the South-West representative on the Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the party, Adegboyega Oyetola, chaired the meeting held in the Government House, Oke-Fia, Osogbo. Briefing journalists, Oyetola said the meeting focused on the urgent need to rally support and ensure Akeredolu’s re-election. Meanwhile, one of the 12 aspirants who contested the state APC governorship primary, Dr Nathaniel Adojutelegan, asked the party to cancel the primary held on Monday. He said the primary, in which Akeredolu was declared winner, fell short of national and international standards. The aspirant submitted a petition to the Ondo APC Governorship Primary Election Appeal Committee at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, on Wednesday. It was learnt that he presented some evidence to support his claim that the exercise was fraught with electoral malpractices. In the-two page petition, Adojutelegan alleged among other things, that provisions of the APC constitution and the guidelines of the Electoral Act and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria were violated. He said, “The electoral college of delegates that voted in the governorship primary election was not democratically elected by members of the party from their various wards contrary to the provisions of Article 20 of the constitution of the All Progressives Congress. “The electoral college of delegates that voted in the governorship primary election was selected during the 2018 congresses and not democratically elected by members of the party from their various wards contrary to the provisions of Article 20 of the constitution of the APC. “The mode of the primary election adopted was disclosed on Friday, July 17, 2020 a few days to the date of governorship primary election contrary to the guidelines, rules and regulations of the APC.” Chairman of the committee, Emperor Ibe, promised that the committee would be fair to all. At the close of sitting on Friday, only Dr Nathaniel Adojutelegan appeared before the appeal panel. Meanwhile, indications have emerged that the Social Democratic Party in the state is still engulfed in crisis as two governorship candidates emerged from the party. The two candidates, Mr Peter Fasua and Mr Adekunle Saliu, emerged from the parallel primaries conducted by the two factions of the party at separate locations. Fasua emerged after two other aspirants stepped down for him in a primary held at the secretariat of the party. Members of the party’s National Working Committee were present to monitor the exercise amid tight security. The SDP National Vice Chairman, (South West), Mr Bade Falade, while speaking with journalists on the development, expressed satisfaction over the exercise. He however said there was no faction in the party, adding that the party’s candidate was well accepted to all the members. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com