Ife Ogunfuwa The Standards Organisation of Nigeria has secured the conviction to two men for producing and distributing substandard engine oil. The judgement was secured at the Federal High Court in Lagos, a statement by the SON on Thursday stated. Justice Oluremi Oguntoyibo convicted the men – Uche Johnson and Kingsley Meteke – after they pleaded guilty to the offence and sentenced them to two years imprisonment each. The defendants admitted to have adulterated 128 drums and 9.45 litres of engine oil. They were charged with four counts of production, possession, dealing in and distribution of substandard engine oil. SON said the defendants indulged in production of engine oil which did not meet mandatory industrial standards. The defendants claimed that the products were good for public consumption and for optimum engine performance, which prosecution said were false. The agency said the adulterated engine oil failed to comply with the Standards Organisation of Nigeria’s Conformity Assessment Programme. According to the prosecution, the offence contravened the provisions of sections 1(8) and 1(8)(II) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, 2004. The defendants had initially pleaded not guilty to the charges, but later changed their plea to guilty. The statement said the sentence would begin from January 27, 2019 when the defendants were arrested. Prosecuting counsel, Mr Joseph Olofindare, said the judgment would serve as a deterrent to manufacturers and importers of substandard products. He said, “I want to tell genuine manufacturers and consumers that they should not be despondent or complacent. SON is there to prosecute any offender. “It is a judgment that will send a message to the public that SON is working tirelessly under the leadership of Osita Aboloma. “If you’re an importer or manufacturer, you either bring products that are certified under Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme and SON Conformity  Assessment Programme or the fate that befell these individuals will also befall those who are indulging in product adulteration.” Olofindare stressed that the SON management was working tirelessly to ensure that consumers got value for their money and that only standard and certified products were in the market. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 