Political analysts appear united in their assessment that the All Progressives Congress was inching towards the precipice when the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), led the party’s National Executive Committee to hold a statutory meeting which was long overdue. After assessing the chaotic leadership crisis which was threatening to polarise the party, Buhari suggested the immediate sacking of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee, and in its place, a Caretaker Committee and Extra -Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee be named. His suggestions were unanimously upheld and the Buni-led committee was born. All of the six geo-political zones of the country are represented on the panel. Apart from Buni, the 12 other members of the committee are: Governor Sani Bello of Niger State (North-central), Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola (South-West), former Senate President, Ken Nnamani (South-East), Stella Okorete (Women Representative)), Dr James Lalu (representing people living with disabilities), and Senator Abubakar Yusuf (representing the Senate). Others are Akinyemi Olaide (House of Representatives), former Bayelsa State APC governorship candidate, David Lyon (South-South), Abba Ari (North-West), Prof. Tahir Mamman (North-East), Ismail Ahmed (Youth representative) and a former Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory, Senator Akpan Udoedehe, who was named Secretary to the committee. The APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, whose contributions to the birth and sustenance of the party has been acknowledged by friends and foes, in his written intervention after the disputed NEC meeting, admitted that a lot was going wrong and that the President stepped in at the nick of time. While lending his voice to concerns raised by other leaders of the party, especially the President, Tinubu said, “The National Working Committee, itself, became ridden by unnecessary conflict. Those who disagreed with one another stopped trying to find common ground. Attempts were made to use the power of executive authority to bury each other. I must be blunt here. This is the behaviour of a fight club not the culture of a progressive political party.” He admitted that Oshiomhole made mistakes which he must own up to but said the former chairman was an able and enthusiastic campaigner during the 2019 elections. The Director-General, Progressive Governors Forum, Dr Salihu Lukeman, who was one of the stakeholders who worked with others behind the scenes during the pre-APC merger talks, agreed with Tinubu on this score. He told Saturday PUNCH, in an interview, that politics involved contest, dialogue and compromise. According to him, the moment a political party stifles healthy debate and stigmatises members who hold a contrary opinion to that of party leaders, it stands the risk of going extinct. Lukeman noted that under the Oshiomhole-led NWC, things went so bad that statutory meetings of the party organs were not held. The PGF DG explained that the crisis, which led to the sacking of the NWC, had its roots in the party primaries which produced standard bearers for the 2019 general elections. He said, “The inability of the party leadership to call for a meeting to review the problem and begin to find a solution to it complicated matters. I think things got so bad when the mentality of the 2019 elections appeared to have taken over the driving seat in terms of the management of the problem leading to the Edo State governorship primary; and unfortunately the main person who could have provided leadership became a major disputant.” Buni, who was named chairman of the caretaker committee, is a party insider. Before his election as Yobe State Governor in 2019, he held the forth as the APC National Secretary. His choice was accepted by the feuding power blocs within the party because, unlike some of his governor colleagues, he is largely seen as nonaligned to any of the feuding power blocs. He promised to be just and fair to all. The committee, however, has its job cut out. Its immediate task is to resolve the trust deficit among party members in Edo and Ondo states ahead of the off-season elections to be held in July and October respectively. In Edo State for instance, the lingering dispute between Oshiomhole and his political godson, Godwin Obaseki, forced the governor to dump the ruling party. Even though Obaseki has left, some of his supporters have nevertheless remained in the APC and are likely prepared to fight on. As things stand, the party is still factionalised. This is also the case in Ondo, Zamfara and Rivers states just to mention a few. According to a political scientist and Executive Director, Omega Ventures, Mathew Abraham, the first task before the committee is that of confidence building. He said playing the blame game at this time was likely to be counterproductive. Abraham said, “To be able to make appreciable progress, the committee must take steps that will build confidence among the feuding parties in the dispute. Unless the committee is able to gain the trust of party members across the board, every of its moves will generate suspicion and if not properly handled, it will create a bigger problem than it was set up to solve.” The committee equally has the onerous task of organising ward, local government and state congresses which will produce delegates who will participate in the national convention to vote in new members of the NWC. It will be expected to grapple with the reality of growing desires among some party leaders who have become desperate to control the party structure at all levels to advance their political cause. A senior lecturer in the Department of Political Science, University of Jos, Joseph Anuga, while discussing the subject, explained, “It is quite unfortunate that our politics in this part of the world still revolves around primitive accumulation of wealth. Only a handful of our politicians seek public office to advance public good, it is mostly about self, family and friends.” He noted that in a bid to control the process, party leaders would stop at nothing to ensure those they considered loyal to their cause emerged as party leaders to protect their interests. Political pundits posit that intense consultation and horse trading have commenced because whichever region the party’s next national chairman comes from will give a direction on where the party’s 2023 presidential standard bearer will emerge from. The contest for positions within the next NWC will largely be determined by what is zoned to which part of the country. As things currently stand, the President is from northern Nigeria, the party chairmanship is expected to remain in the south. In the unlikely event that a northerner is picked as national chairman, chances are that a southerner is being considered for the presidential run. Party insiders, however, hinted that the current arrangement which had kept the chairmanship position in the south since 2014 would subsist but that another state outside Edo State would produce Oshiomhole’s replacement. Edo State has so far produced two successive national chairmen. Three names are already coming up in conversations, they are: former Cross River State Governor, Clement Ebri; Dr Sam Jaja, from Rivers State; and Senator Victor Ndoma Egba. However, members of the dissolved NWC are not barred from seeking to return depending on the level of their popularity in their various states and zones. The Executive Director, Civil Societies Legislative and Advocacy Centre, Auwual Musa, expressed the opinion that political parties must learn to abide by the rules they set for themselves. He also said when party members were not equal in the eyes of the party’s laws, there were bound to be problems. He said, “Sometimes, the selective application of a party’s constitution could be the problem. When members feel cheated or oppressed, it breeds resentment which could lead to a revolt like was witnessed in 2015 thereabout, with the exit of five PDP governors to join the APC.” The Buni-led committee has, however, quickly resolved the issue of the mode of primary for Ondo State. This is because there are already agitations among party members especially those seeking to contest the party ticket with the incumbent Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on the issue. While the governor’s supporters prefer the indirect mode of primary, his opponents are united in demanding for the direct primary mode as was done in Edo State. However, there are unconfirmed reports that for Ondo State, the direct primary may pose a challenge because a credible register of party members which is a basic requirement, is lacking. But, one of the aspirants, Chief Olusola Oke, disagreed. He argued that the 2014 register which was updated in 2018 should suffice. The Buni-led committee also has an uphill task in getting party members with pending court cases against the party to withdraw such cases in line with the president’s appeal. Even so, some party stakeholders have insisted that the future of the APC depends on how well the committee is able to discharge its responsibility. Whether or not it can build on Buhari’s momentum remains to be seen. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com