Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a self-acclaimed lawyer, Elijah Ojo, for allegedly duping a client  into parting with N300,000. Ojo was reported to have collected the money from a client to perfect her bail condition, but   bolted afterwards. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. Oyeyemi said Ojo was arrested on Sunday for parading himself as a legal practitioner and swindling several people out of huge sums of money. The PPRO added that the suspect was arrested following a petition written to the Divisional Police Officer, Ajuwon, by a legal practitioner. Oyeyemi said the petitioner reported the suspect for parading himself as a lawyer and extorting money from unsuspecting members of the public. The PPRO stated that the petitioner told the police that the suspect had never been to the Law School and therefore was not qualified to be addressed as a lawyer. Oyeyemi added, “Upon the petition, the DPO, Ajuwon Division, SP Andrew Akinseye, and his team of detectives embarked on a painstaking intelligence investigation about the self-acclaimed lawyer. “In the process of their investigation, they came across a woman, who was charged defrauded an offence, but was defrauded by the suspect, who collected N300,000 from her to perfect her bail condition, but never showed up in court. READ ALSO: Police nab human parts dealer in Rivers, uncover four corpses “The suspect was subsequently arrested after much evidence had been gathered against him. “On interrogation, he confessed that though he gained admission to study Law at the Ekiti State University, he did not finish the course and did not attend the Law School.” The PPRO added that the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and diligent prosecution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 