Persons with sickle cell anaemia are said to be among the most vulnerable to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a specialist in the treatment of pregnant women living with the condition, what are the major factors that increase their risk of being infected? People with sickle cell disease are vulnerable to infections generally because of their anaemia. That is, they have a low amount of oxygen-carrying red blood cells. So, they tend to be vulnerable to infection, especially when they are stressed. Normally, their red blood cells, in a steady state, can keep them well. But if they are stressed, maybe with low oxygen levels or they are dehydrated or too hot or too cold, they can develop vulnerability to infection. That is the main thing that can make them vulnerable. What are the chances of survival of such persons who test positive for COVID-19? The pandemic is still quite new; it started in Nigeria at the end of February but globally, it started in late 2019. Now, a few case reports have been done – one in France and one in Britain. The one in the UK found 10 people with sickle cell disease that had COVID-19 and they all did quite well.  For the one that was done in France, the younger people did well and the older people were the ones that graduated to the Intensive Care Unit and so on. For the one in France, out of about 83 patients with sickle cell disorder, I think it was just about two that didn’t make it at the end of the day. So, I believe that even though they are vulnerable to infections generally, so far and from what we have seen reported, we haven’t dealt with them worse than we deal with anybody that doesn’t have sickle cell disorder. In your 2019 inaugural lecturer, you spoke about the journeys of women in pregnancy, delivery and sickle cell disease. How would you assess the prevalence of the disease among pregnant women in Nigeria now? The prevalence is about one per cent on the average. If you say one per cent, that is one in a hundred and it looks as if it is low. But if you know that Nigeria has a high population and a large number of women who do get pregnant every year, then it is not necessarily such a low prevalence after all. It is spread across Nigeria, though it is probably more in the South. For non-pregnant people in the North, it is an average of one per cent, and two per cent of people generally that have sickle cell in the South. Do you think there is a factor responsible for that? No, I don’t think so. I think it may just be the fact that we haven’t researched it well enough. Those figures are hospital-based figures. We don’t have a national database yet. So, for now, I don’t think there is a factor responsible until we actually do the right research. Is there available data showing the mortality rate among pregnant women with sickle cell disease in Nigeria? Yes, there is data. My team and I published some research early in 2020 as well as 10 years ago, looking at the mortality rate. There are many other studies as well on the mortality rate in pregnancy. The bottom line is that we found it is improving significantly and in the study we published in January, 2020, we didn’t lose any of the 50 consecutive women we managed. We had zero mortality from the women that were registered with us and had their care with us from the beginning. Mortality rate is reducing but it is still something that can be quite dangerous in pregnancy and it needs individualised care to ensure that the women do well in pregnancy. How can this be done efficiently and effectively? It can be done effectively by paying a lot of attention to the women when they are admitted and ensuring that whatever is wrong is corrected. If there is any infection, it should be quickly treated. Tests should be done properly and treatment administered quickly. Many partners who are carriers still go ahead to get married. From your interactions with your patients, what did they say convinced them to disregard such medical advice? The bottom line is that human beings will be human beings. The fact that you are given pieces of advice medically or otherwise doesn’t mean you will necessarily carry them out. Sometimes, such persons are not aware that their partners have the disease because they probably had a wrong test result in the past and later realised it. And if two people feel they want to be together and know the consequences, it is difficult for you to pontificate and ask why they are doing it, when you know that it was not as if they planned to have the condition. So, it is a difficult one and oftentimes, it is because they don’t know. And even when they do, they decide that the benefit of being together outweighs the risk, and that they can seek all the advice and counselling that are necessary when they decide to conceive. Even though childbearing is a very important thing and most people do want to have children when they get married, you also have to consider the fact that some people may decide that they are more interested in cohabiting. Some carriers believe that with faith in their religion, they won’t have children with sickle cell disease. What’s your reaction to that? The disease has a genetic way of inheritance and it is by chance. There is a one-in-four chance of having a baby that is infected, if two carriers get married. Some people believe that when they pray, luck would come their way. But mainly, it is by chance. I am a scientist and in this particular case, I have to go with science. What can you say about the PIPSICKLE trial and how affordable it is for pregnant women? The PIPSICKLE trial is a trial in which we are looking at a safe drug (low dose aspirin) which has been used in a lot of other conditions, in pregnancy as well as in non-pregnant people, to see if it has the potential of improving pregnancy for women with sickle cell disorder. We did some research beforehand which showed that certain hormones in the body during pregnancy in sickle cell women are reversed. We know that the drug we are using has the potential to make the hormones back in the normal order. So, we now want to test to see if it will actually make that difference. So, the women PIPSICKLE trial was born out of that and the plan is to test about 476, using either the drug or a placebo and to find out at the end if the drug makes a difference to complications during pregnancy as well as their babies’ health when they are born. Does it apply to all forms of complications? We are trying to find out if it is going to affect something. It is only at the end of the trial that we will be able to know whether it made a difference in all the types of complications. But one of the complications we are looking at is preeclamsia, which is a hypertensive disease of pregnancy. Another one that we are looking at is intrauterine growth restriction – a restriction of the growth potential of the baby during pregnancy. People don’t seem to understand it; they seem to think we are treating something and we are sure it is going to work. No. We feel that it is likely to work, because of previous research we have done. But you have to actually do the research to know whether it won’t work. But what I need to emphasise is that it is very safe and it has passed through many ethical committee reviews, and the drug is also used very frequently in pregnancy anyway. Is the trial at any cost to those who wish to take part in it? The trial is not at any cost and we are also giving some of their regular medication free of charge so that they can all be under the same condition for the trial. What is the long-term benefit of the PIPSICKLE trial? It has the potential to change pregnancy and childbirth complications. So, if we find that it is effective; a lot of complications that occur during pregnancy for women with sickle cell disease will be reduced. Although there have been reports about innovative treatments for sickle cell disease, like stem cell transplant. How affordable are they to the ordinary Nigerian? Apart from being expensive, stem cell transplant is also difficult to carry out. There was a time a few stem cell transplants were done at the University of Benin, Edo State. But it takes so much to keep the environment sterile continuously for the operation. It is a very expensive venture. There has to be either complete government dedication or a private sector initiative for that kind of thing. Some of the other treatments that are not a total cure but help with crises, like hydroxyurea, are also a bit expensive but, at least, they are available. There have been concerns about persons with sickle cell disorders using certain drugs to the point of addiction. What is your opinion on that? I don’t agree with that. People like to jump on minority occurrences. It is not common at all that people with sickle cell disease overuse certain drugs. These people (with sickle cell disease) have genuine pain and when you have genuine pain, you want it to go; it is the most distressing thing. That is why I am so into looking after these women, though I am an obstetrician and not a haematologist. I really feel the pain they go through. And once the pain goes, most of them stop using the medication. One or two people may get hooked on a medication, but a lot of people who use it and genuinely need it get off it once they don’t have pain. Some persons with the disease live above 50 years. Is  there a medical explanation for that? Sickle cell anaemia is quite a variable condition and that is the thing about science. You may see somebody here or there living long, but to a large extent, a lot of persons with the disease die in childhood. However, with very good care now, that is changing, and people are living to adulthood and having normal lives. It is just that the life span is still shorter than most non-sickle cell people. Are there specific treatments for pregnant women with sickle cell disorder? Not really, it’s just that it is important, before they get pregnant, to have a lot of tests done to be sure that it is okay for them to get pregnant and to be sure they don’t have certain complications in their kidneys or their lungs already before pregnancy. But during pregnancy, they use the regular treatments. Does a child born with the disease require any medication? At birth, they usually are okay until four to six months before they start developing any symptoms. So, the important thing is to let the paediatrician know so that they can be put on certain antibiotics and certain vaccines to prevent the type of infections that they suffer from the most. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 