Peter Dada There are indications that the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party has begun moves to make its candidate in Ondo State October 10 governorship election, Eyitayo Jegede, to run with the state deputy governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi. Investigations by our correspondent showed that the party was encouraged by Ajayi’s performance during last week’s primary. Jegede had 888 votes while Ajayi, who defected to the PDP from the All Progressives Congress a few weeks ago, had 657.  The result of others who participated were: Eddy Olafeso (175), Banji Okunomo (90), Olabode Ayorinde (95) and Boluwaji Kunlere (33). Ajayi is believed to be a grass roots politician and could sway votes in favour of the PDP, especially from his senatorial district if he is convinced to join the Jegede team. The deputy governor was said to have felt betrayed by some of the aspirants, especially those from his senatorial district who refused to step down. He was however said to have accepted the outcome of the primary in good faith. A national officer of the party, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “We are going to discuss with him and our governorship candidate. We want the two of them to work together. “All the governorship aspirants have to be on the same page with the party to enable us defeat the incumbent in the state.” When contacted, the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, said the candidate would be given a freehand to pick his running mate. He said the party would not impose any candidate on him, added that “running with Ajayi could be an advantage because of the support he has. “We will actually look at the possibility (of Jegede running with Ajayi). However, you know the two camps must agree to work together. That is the most important thing. Also, the members of the party in the state will also decide as well.” The party will present a certificate of return to Jegede at a ceremony, in Abuja, on Monday. In a related development, the party has begun discussions with stakeholders in the state with a view to reconciling members. This is even as the state deputy governor declared in Akure on Saturday, to remain in the PDP despite his loss in last Wednesday’s primary. Two days after the primary, Ajayi was alleged to have visited a former governor of the state, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, in Ondo town, to discuss his movement to the Zenith Labour Party. It was reported that the duo failed to agree on certain issues at the said meeting. However, a media aide to the deputy governor, Mr. Allen Sowore, neither confirmed nor denied the report, but said, “The deputy governor is only consulting with his supporters and in another one week, he will come out with the next line of action. All I can tell you now is that he still consulting. “You know the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, Eyitayo Jegede SAN, visited him yesterday (Friday). He has been meeting with the critical stakeholders to determine the next line of action.” In response to this development, the deputy governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Tope Okeowo said, “He (Ajayi) has not made any statement about the last primary. Don’t let us preempt him. He has congratulated the winner of the primary and expressed his commitment to the PDP.” The Head, Media Research, Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation, Mr. Samuel Fasua, told Sunday PUNCH, that Ajayi had indicated interest in working for Jegede. He confirmed that his principal visited Ajayi and all other aspirants in their homes to seek their support. In what observers consider a fallout of the primary, the Senator representing Ondo South Senatorial District, Nicholas Tofowomo sacked 92 of his aides following the defeat of his preferred aspirant, Mr. Banji Okunomo. However, the senator, in a statement by his media aide, Mr. Olumide Akinrinola, on Saturday said, “Let it  be on record that the disengagement does not have anything to do with the outcome of the PDP primary election because the senator did not at any point in time participate in the election as one of the governorship aspirants. “The public should not attach the outcome of the PDP primary to the sacking of 92 aides.” In another development, the only female contestant in the just-concluded primary of the Ondo State All Progressives Congress, Mrs Jumoke Anifowose, has rejected the result of the primary. Anifowose, who is the daughter of the first civilian governor of the state, Pa Adekunle Ajasin, scored only two votes in the primary, won by the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akerodolu last Monday. The Director-General of her campaign organisation, Mr. Kayode Arigbede, in Akure on Saturday said, “Party members who are supporters of Mrs. Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowose had their trust and confidence eroded by events that took place during the exercise. “The indirect mode of primary election used is nothing to be proud of as a party and we refuse to accept the result.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com