PETER DADA A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo State, Mr Timi Olopele, has dragged the state Deputy Governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi, to the state High Court, seeking his disqualification from the July 22 primary. Ajayi is one of the aspirants contesting the PDP governorship ticket in the forthcoming primary. In the suit number, AK/45M/2020, Olopele prayed the court to stop Ajayi from participating in the primary election of the party, saying he (Ajayi) breached the code of conduct for public office holders. He asked the court to ban the deputy governor from holding any public office for a maximum period of 10 years. The ex parte motion brought before the court was instituted with an originating summons dated July 17, 2020. Olopele averred that the deputy governor had consistently acted in “breach of Section 1, 5th Schedule, Part 1 of the Code of Conduct for Public Officers and Section 9 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended.” The plaintiff also prayed for Ajayi’s disqualification for “breaching of the provisions of the regulations of the West African Examinations Council Act, Cap W4 Law of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 2004.” However, the Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, Mr Zadok Akintoye, confirmed that the deputy governor submitted his Senior Secondary School Certificate as one of the requirements to contest in the governorship primary election of the party. He said “That is the least minimum required qualification by the constitution,  but oftentimes people who have questionable qualification and which has been a source of litigation can avoid that because if there is any litigation,  it is what is submitted that would be challenged  and not what he claimed  to have because that will be circumstantial in evidence.” In his reaction, the deputy governor described the suit seeking his disqualification from the primary of the PDP as an exercise in futility. His Chief Press Secretary, Mr Tope Okeowo, said, “We are not surprised because of the imminent defeat of the architects and their masters at the poll. “It’s obvious that both the governor’s camp and his collaborators in the PDP are in excruciating pains and confusion since the deputy governor left the All Progressive Congress  for the PDP. “The facts and issues in the matter are the same as the case already adjudicated upon by the Court of Appeal in case appeal number: CA/B/EPT/330A/2008, between the Deputy Governor, Hon. Agboola Ajayi (then Member of the National Assembly) and Prince Olubukola Ebietomiye of the Democratic People’s Alliance, in 2007, wherein the appellant was absolved of any wrong doing. “Also, the same matter was adjudicated upon in a suit Olukayode Ijifusi V. Hon. Alfred Agboola Ajayi Suit Number: FCT/CV/1261/2020 Before Hon. Justice Adeniyi and again the Deputy Governor was vindicated.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 