Olaleye Aluko and Grace Edema The Lagos State Government has said that 2,191 COVID-19 patients who are located across communities have yet to submit themselves for treatment at the state care centres. The state Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, who disclosed this on Friday, added that residents of the state must continue to take the responsibility of wearing face masks in public in addition to regular handwashing and physical distancing. Abayomi said on his Twitter handle that the total number of COVID-19 tests conducted in the state stood at 45,490. He said, “The new cases bring the total number of confirmed COVID-19 infections in Lagos to 11,537 as of Wednesday. Also, 2,191 active cases in communities have yet to turn up for admission in COVID-19 Lagos care centres. For a greater Lagos, we take responsibility by wearing our face masks when in public spaces in addition to regular handwashing and physical distancing. “Stopping the community spread of COVID-19 begins with you. Staying alive and safe together begins with us. 1,753 of the confirmed cases have since been discharged from COVID-19 care centres following full recovery while 7,059 of the confirmed cases are being monitored in communities by the COVID-19 Lagos response team.” Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, has said the state government will on Monday come out with its reaction to the cancellation of the West Africa Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations by the Federal Government. Adefisayo, who spoke with our correspondent on the telephone, said the state was still reviewing the Federal Government’s decision and would soon make its stance known. She said, “We are still reviewing the situation and will let you know our decision on Monday. I don’t want to say more than that; give us time. It is something we can’t respond to now. There is not enough clarity; so it’s better to speak when I do.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control said on Friday that the country recorded 575 new COVID-19 cases nationwide to bring the total cases to 31,323. The NCDC noted that 12,795 patients had been discharged while 709 deaths had occurred. The Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba, during the press briefing by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Monday announced that the 2020 WASSCE conducted by WAEC would hold between August 4 and September 5. But Adamu said on Wednesday that all federal schools would remain closed until it was safe to reopen them. He also urged state governments that have announced school’s resumption plans to rescind such. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com