Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Feuding members of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State on Tuesday vowed to continue their litigation until they get justice. Their position is in defiance of an appeal by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), urging party members to withdraw pending litigations in the party’s interest. The aggrieved members, under the aegis of the APC Stakeholders’ Forum, said no amount of blackmail would make them withdraw the court case. The forum’s Chairman and Secretary, Senator Tony Adeniyi and Femi Acdeleye, respectively, in a statement titled, ‘We shall not succumb to blackmail and manipulation – Ekiti APC Stakeholders’ Forum,’ issued in Ado Ekiti, explained that although they were ready for reconciliation, Governor Kayode Fayemi and his cronies did not invite them. The aggrieved members, in the suit filed at a Federal High Court, Abuja, alleged that the Ekiti APC did not conduct ward, council and state congresses and prayed the court to declare the process that produced the current state party executives null and void. Plaintiffs in the suit included Senator Babafemi Ojudu, Dr. Wole Oluyede, Oyetunde Ojo, Chief Akin Akomolafe, Ayo Ajibade, Akogun Ogunleye and Ben Oguntuase. The statement read in part, “We are ready for genuine and sincere reconciliation where the injustices and illegalities perpetrated by the present leadership will be properly addressed. “We do not want to lose elections in Ekiti again. If we allow things to continue the way it is, our fate in 2022 will be worse than the first coming of Dr Fayemi. “Our action is a wake-up call. We are also not against our party members holding executive offices. All we are asking for is legality, fairness and justice. If we don’t have all these, as well as appreciable performance and inclusiveness, we may as well forget 2022.” In response, the state APC Publicity Secretary, Ade Ajayi, said, “If they should defy the orders and fail to withdraw the case in court, then we will apply the party’s constitution in dealing with the situation. “But we appeal to them to take the path of honour and withdraw the case honourably. “The State Executive Council and Ekiti Stakeholders’ Caucus have also taken a position and said all members must comply. ” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   