GODWN ISENYO Kaduna State Police Command has promised to prosecute the deaconess who allegedly tortured a 14-year-old girl with knife after the conclusion of investigation. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, who identified the woman as Mrs Yemi Awolola, said she was currently in custody of the command. Jalige told our Sunday PUNCH on Saturday that the deaconess, who is also a senior officer with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, would be charge to court immediately after investigation by the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department. He said, “Operatives of the command have arrested the woman who allegedly tortured a 14-year-old girl believed to be her home help on Friday. The case has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department and investigation has commenced. Immediately investigation is completed, she will be charge to court for prosecution. Asked of the whereabouts of the girl, Jalige said, “she has been taken to the hospital for medical examinations and treatment.” Our correspondent learnt that the victim, identified as Princess was said to taken from the Internally Displaced Peoples camp, Kajuru in the Kauru Local Government Area of Kaduna State after much pleading from her parents. It was gathered that the victim was handed over to the deaconess with promise that she would go to school. There was no concrete detail regarding why the woman battered the teenager. But a source stated thus “she was accused of putting a knife on a burner or stove and when it’s hot, she placed it on her face.” Pictures showing battered body of the teenager were all over the Internet on Saturday with many Nigerians commenting on the development. An Instagram user, mizamoefi, described the torture as heartbreaking. “This had to stop. Please stop abusing children.” Another Nigerian, Mis_janey, wondered why it was difficult to take care of someone’s child put in one’s care. “What exactly is happening? I think it is high time people stopped giving out their children. The wickedness from guardians is becoming too much,” another user, Chicapparelhub, wrote. “Why treat someone’s own child like an animal and cry when yours have headache? It is a mark of wickedness and evil….Do unto others as you would love to be treated,” Ozor_iyanga stated. Meanwhile, the state Commissioner for Human Services and Social Development, Hafsat Baba, said Awolola’s offence contravened the state Child Welfare and Protection Law. According to her, the state will sanction the offender on three counts of child labour, violence against children as well as sexual violence. She also stated that the victim was currently receiving treatment at a private hospital from where she would be transferred to the state-owned Barau Dikko Hospital. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 