John Alechenu, Abuja The Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress, on Tuesday, said it had yet to discuss the issue of zoning for the party’s  forthcoming National Convention. It said the matter was not discussed at its inaugural meeting held in Abuja on Monday. This was contained in a statement signed by the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena. The statement read in part, “A purported zoning arrangement for the planned National Convention of the All Progressives Congress, which has gone viral in the social media ,is fake. “The inaugural meeting of the Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee,  which was held at the APC National Secretariat on Monday, did not discuss or issue the fake zoning arrangement for the planned National Convention.” In a related development, the APC Caretaker Committee named former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; and Niger  State Governor, Abubakar Bello, as chairmen of the Edo and Ondo APC reconciliation committees, respectively. The national leadership of the party approved their appointments as well as the membership of the two committees. Nabena said, “This is in line with the process of true reconciliation among leaders and members of the party at all levels, as announced by the National Chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni. “Members of the Edo State Reconciliation Committee are: Senator Ken Nnamani (Chairman),  Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), Festus Keyamo, (SAN), Prof. Tahir Mamman, Mrs Margaret Okadigbo, Sanusi Musa and Abdul-Rahman Sumaila (Secretary). For Ondo, the panel listed as committee members Bello (Chairman), Senator Adamu Aliero, Senator Bamidele Opeyemi, Gambon Magaji, Mr Jasper Azuatalam, Hajiya Binta Muazu, Iquo Inyang and Mr Shina Pellar (Secretary). Ondo aspirants want direct primary Meanwhile, some of the aspirants jostling for the Ondo State APC governorship ticket have urged the party to adopt the direct mode of primary for the upcoming party primary. One of the aspirants, Chief Olusola Oke (SAN), said, the direct primary mode, which gives every financially up-to-date party member the opportunity to vote for a candidate of  their choice, would provide aspirants a level playing field to test their popularity. He said, “The right thing our party must do is to provide a level playing field for everyone to operate including the incumbent to be fair to all concerned.” Another aspirant, Bukola Adetula, said,  “I strongly believe direct (primary) is the process we should undergo. That is where I stand.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com