Dayo Ojerinde A Veterinary Doctor, Dr Bayo Olufunwa, has said critically ill COVID-19 patients are 10 times likely to develop cardiac arrhythmias and arrest. Olufunwa, at a briefing, said cardiac arrythmias is an uncoordinated beating of the heart and rhythm. He said, “Heart rhythm problems occur when electrical impulses that coordinate heartbeats don’t work properly, causing the heart to beat too fast, too slowly or irregularly. “Heart damage recently discovered in COVID-19 patients have been puzzling doctors particularly cardiologists all over the world and was termed a new medical mystery. Cardiologists are investigating whether it is the virus that is causing the myocardial damage or not, because initial research suggests that the kind of receptors that coronavirus attaches to in the lungs is also present in the heart.” He advised medical personnel providing care for COVID-19 cases to pay more attention to patients’ levels of calcium ions. “The cardiac arrest seen in critically ill COVID-19 patients is not due to the direct effect of the virus, but caused by respiratory alkalosis. What medical personnel needs to do is determine the deficiency of free calcium ions in these groups of critically ill patients. “According to a study unveiled on June 22, 2020 by Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, United States of America, critically ill COVID-19 patients 10 times more likely to develop cardiac arrythmias and arrest. “The study which was led by Dr Rajat Deo, noted that the cardiac arrhythmias and cardiac arrest suffered by critically ill COVID-19 patients probably in intensive care units are likely triggered by a severe systemic form of the disease and are not the sole consequence of the viral infection,” Olufunwa said. In his presentation, titled, ‘Respiratory Alkalosis: The Unrecognised Villian,’ Olufunwa added that calcium was crucial in the development and function of the brain, muscles and heart. He said, “Respiratory alkalosis has remained largely unrecognised or poorly understood by most doctors all over the world and this has caused millions of deaths in humans and animals, resulting in several millions of losses over several decades. “The medical and scientific world have failed to recognise for several decades that hypocalcaemia that causes several diseases resulted from respiratory alkalosis.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com