Peter Dada, Akure The Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, has demanded the removal of the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, David Oloyelogun, as the move to impeach him (Ajayi) thickens. The Assembly had served the deputy governor an impeachment notice. But the impeachment process suffered a setback when the state Chief Judge, Justice Oluwatoyin Akeredolu, rejected a letter from the Assembly. The Assembly had asked her to set up a seven-man committee to investigate the allegations levelled against the deputy governor. Ajayi, in a statement on Sunday by his media aide, Allen Sowore, said the rejection of the Assembly’s request by the Chief Judge was an indication that the leadership of the Assembly was incompetent. He said, “It is in this light that we demand the immediate resignation or removal of the inept and mediocre Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly, David Oloyelogun, whose incompetence has brought the exalted parliament into disrepute. “This will go a long way to preserve our democratic gains, restore the dignity of the legislature and the principle of separation of powers.” READ ALSO: High cost of party nomination forms is undemocratic The deputy governor commended the Chief Judge and added that her action had rekindled the confidence and hope of the people in the judiciary. He said, “His Lordship leaves no one in doubt about the need to adhere strictly to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and due process in modern democracy. The decision is a triumph of the rule of law over brigandage and anarchy.” Reacting to the deputy governor’s statement, the Speaker said, “I have not seen the report where he said I’m incompetent; when I see it, I will reply him appropriately. I don’t believe somebody of that status will bring himself so low to utter such a statement.” The Speaker said the Assembly would correct the error, which made the Chief Judge to decline the request to constitute a panel to probe Ajayi. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 