Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin A Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin, on Wednesday, sentenced two armed robbers to death by hanging for killing a couple, Mr Michael and Mrs Juana Aigbe, at the Fate area of Ilorin in 2016. Justice Aminat Ishiaq sentenced Adeyemi Aderinkomi and Timothy Ajayi to death after finding them guilty of conspiracy, culpable homicide and armed robbery. The judge stated that the duo killed the Aigbes in December 2016 by tying their hands with ropes and dumping them in a well in their compound and locking up the well to prevent the victims from being rescued. Justice Ishiaq stated that the evidence before the court showed that the convicts made away with the couple’s car, money, clothes and other valuables. The prosecutor, Ishola Olofere, who expressed satisfaction with the judgment, said it would serve to curtail criminality in the state. The convicts had earlier admitted to robbing and killing the 65 and 60-year-old couple. Ajayi, who said he was a teacher, stated that he took to robbery because of financial problems, adding, “I regret it. I have only tried to dupe one person, but I was not successful. I am a teacher.” Adeyemi, on his part, said the couple did not offend them, adding that they robbed the family after they were informed that the couple had important documents in their possession. A family member of the deceased, Mr Bernard John, had on December 21, 2016, reported at the ‘F’ Police Division, Tanke, Ilorin, that he visited the home of the deceased to convey Michael to work, only for him to discover that the couple were nowhere to be found. Following the report, detectives visited the house and found bloodstains in the couple’s room. The then Commissioner of Police in the state, Olusola Amore, had stated that a search of the compound led the detectives to where the bodies of the victims were dumped in a well. Amore had said, “Investigation led to the arrest of Aderinkomi and Ajayi, who were the masterminds of the crime. “They confessed to the crime. Ajayi also confessed to raping the woman before they killed her and her husband, and stealing their property, including a Toyota Camry car and two mobile phones, among others. “The suspects sold some of the stolen items to Akingbade Ademila and Toyose Alade, who have been arrested. “To cover their track, they set the Toyota Camry ablaze. They confessed to have dumped the victims in the well to prevent detection. The exhibits were recovered from the receivers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com