Deji Lambo The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered a manhunt for the motorcyclists, who allegedly killed a Lagos businessman, Yamah Usman, in the Elepe area of Ikorodu. This followed PUNCH Metro’s report that Yamah was stoned to death by an angry mob of motorcyclists for hitting a partially sighted man with his vehicle around the Ikorodu Garage last Monday. The motorcyclists were said to have reacted violently towards Yamah after the Edo State indigene hit the partially sighted man, and out of fear for his life, he reportedly fled from the scene, but the motorcyclists pursued him and intercepted him at Elepe on the Ijede Road, where he was stoned to death. Yamah’s son, Abdulmalik, had said the partially sighted man was alive, adding that the motorcyclists, mostly from the northern part of the country, vandalised his father’s vehicle after stoning him to death in broad daylight. After perpetrating the crime, the suspects were said to have mounted their motorcycles and fled the scene of the crime. In a follow-up reaction to the incident on Tuesday, Odumosu told PUNCH Metro that he had summoned the Divisional Police Officers and Divisional Crime Officers in the affected areas to a meeting, adding that efforts were on to get justice for the bereaved family. He confirmed that some arrests had been made and explained that a manhunt had been launched to apprehend more suspects and promised a comprehensive investigation into the incident. Odumosu stated, “It was a mob reaction and a manhunt has been launched for the suspects, who perpetrated the crime. Although some arrests have been made, the manhunt still continues because it is a murder case and a thorough investigation needs to be done to link the suspects to the crime. “The incident happened in two divisions. The first division was where the victim hit someone, while the second division was where he was intercepted and killed. I summoned the Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers in the areas to a meeting today (Tuesday) and I can confirm to you that some arrests have been made. The investigation is in top gear to get justice for the bereaved family.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  