Peter Dada, Akure The All Progressives Congress in the Ese Odo Local Government Area of Ondo State has reportedly expelled the lawmaker from the area, Mr Success Torukerijoh. Torukerijoh is a member of the state House of Assembly and one of the nine lawmakers opposed to the impeachment of the state deputy governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi. The development was confirmed by the state Commissioner for Information, Mr Donald Ojogo, who is also a chieftain of the party in the local government. When contacted on the matter, Ojogo simply said the information is “correct.” Torukerijoh was said to have been expelled for being involved in anti-party activities and the action was taken during the meeting of the leaders of the party held at Igbekebo, the headquarters of the local government, on Sunday. According to a source, the motion for the expulsion of the embattled lawmaker was moved and duly seconded at the meeting. Efforts to reach the lawmaker on the telephone were unsuccessfully as his telephone line indicated that it was switched off as of the time of filing this report. Aside the lawmaker’s expulsion, the APC leaders at the meeting also insisted that the deputy governor must resign his position since he had dumped the party. Meanwhile, Torhukerhijoh has described his expulsion from the APC in his local government as illegal and embarrassing. He said the news of his expulsion showed clearly that the leadership of the party had run out of any iota of decency. The lawmaker stated, “My refusal to sign the impeachment process of the Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, represents the popular wishes of the greatest number of my constituents. “This harassment and intimidation by the Speaker, David Oloyeogun, to force me to sign against my conscience and conviction shows the desperation and agony of a ‘Fortunate Fool’. “I’m not oblivious of the backing of Mr Governor in all of these clandestine moves to conscript my humble self to sign at all cost and by all means. Let me reiterate my commitment to holding on to this noble cause. I remain focused.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 