Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja FORMER President Goodluck Jonathan, on Tuesday said his relationship with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), “is okay.” Jonathan said this in an interview with State House correspondents shortly after meeting Buhari behind closed doors at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said their meeting centred on the crisis in Mali and efforts aimed at restoring peace in the country. The Buhari regime has since inception in 2015 been accusing the Jonathan administration and other administrations of the Peoples Democratic Party before it of corruption. Many members of the Jonathan’s administration, including ministers and aides, are currently being prosecuted, fuelling speculations that the two leaders may not be on good terms. But when asked to speak on his relationship with the President, Jonathan said, “You have been seeing me coming to see the President and you have been seeing us having friendly conversation. So, our relationship is okay.” The former President described the naming of Warri-Itakpe rail station after him as a good gesture by the President. Jonathan said, “Let me use this opportunity to commend Mr President publicly. I have already sent a letter to him appreciating the good gesture. “Completing the railway programme is good. It shows that the President is going on with the legacy projects of previous administrations, and that is the way to go. “So, I sent a letter to him. I have commended him verbally too. I appreciate it; I thank Mr President, the Minister of Transportation and others that made it possible.” Earlier in a statement by the Special Adviser Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina,  titled, ‘President Buhari receives briefing from ex-President Jonathan, to confer with other ECOWAS leaders on Mali crisis,’ the presidency said the meeting, which started around a few minutes after 11am, centred on the crisis on Mali for which the Economic Community of West African States saddled Jonathan with the responsibility of restoring peace. Adesina indicated in the statement that Buhari would be consulting with his colleagues from the sub-region on the briefing he received from Jonathan. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 