Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta A serving member of the National Youth Service Corps, Agnes Okoroji, who is attached to the Federal Girls College, Sagamu, Ogun State, and one Tawa Sosanwo, were on Wednesday rescued from the den of kidnappers by policemen. One of the suspected kidnappers was shot dead, while the others escaped through a nearby bush on the Sagamu-Ijebu Ode Road. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed this in a statement. Oyeyemi said the two victims were abducted by the kidnappers at various locations and were being taken to an unknown destination before police intercepted them on the road. He explained that a gun duel ensued between the kidnappers and the policemen led by the Divisional Police Officer, Sagamu, SP Okiki Agunbiade. He said the incident happened when the policemen were on routine patrol and sighted a Toyota Sienna with number plate MUS 86 FN. Oyeyemi added that the police team observed that some passengers in the vehicle appeared suspicious and this prompted them to flag down the vehicle. According to him, instead of the driver to stop, he sped off in the direction of the Ijebu-Ode Road and the DPO ordered his men to chase after them. Oyeyemi stated, “Having realised that they were being pursued, the men in the car started firing at the policemen while on the move, and the policemen fired back. “The suspects later jumped down, abandoned the car and ran into the bush, while the policemen chased after them and shot one of them dead, while the others escaped with gunshot injuries.” Oyeyemi added, “The police team rescued a youth corps member identified as Agnes Okoroji, attached to the Federal Girls College, Sagamu, and one Tawa Sosanwo. “The two victims narrated how they were kidnapped at various locations by the hoodlums, who were taking them to an unknown destination before the police intercepted them on the road. “Their operational car was recovered with the following items: One black toy gun, one gold wristwatch, one Samsung Galaxy S7 phone, one cutlass and one black wristwatch.” The PPRO stated that the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, was full of praise for the gallantry displayed by his men. According to Oyeyemi, the police boss appealed to members of the public, especially hospitals, to inform the police if anyone was seen with gunshot injuries in their areas. “The CP also assured members of the public that the fleeing members of the gang will be hunted and arrested within the shortest possible time,” the PPRO added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 