Femi Asu
Oil exploration has been the hardest it by the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent historic crash in oil prices, the African Energy Chamber has said. The AEC noted in a statement on Wednesday that most seismic acquisition and exploratory drilling programmes had been suspended or altogether cancelled as a result of worsening market conditions. It said, “While the industry has started its slow recovery, the impact of the 2020 crisis on exploration activities in Africa will be felt even harder in the longer term.” The group said in order to advise public and private stakeholders on the path to recovery for the exploration industry, it had appointed a dedicated advisory committee. “Acting in their personal capacity, the exploration committee members gather decades of experience working in the exploration industry, and understand the importance of keeping seismic programmes and exploratory drilling going to preserve the future of the industry,” it said. The AEC said together with its new exploration committee, it would be working on a roadmap to exploration recovery. According to the statement, as energy markets become increasingly competitive and new frontiers emerge every year, the need for African jurisdictions to stay competitive and attract capital and technology in the continent’s acreages is more important than ever. The Executive Chairman at the AEC, Nj Ayuk, said, “Africa remains one of the most under-explored region on the planet, yet one where betting on exploration has proven a huge success. “Recent discoveries in Senegal or Mozambique have showed what rewards explorers get by betting on Africa. “We need to work on a stronger dialogue to make our sedimentary basins competitive and attractive for explorers, and bring back Africa’s rig count up.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  