Deji Lambo Residents of Kajola community, Magboro, in the Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State, have lamented the lack of power supply to the area. The residents told PUNCH Metro that the non-supply of power supply had worsened their living condition, adding that commercial activities in the community had been paralysed as business owners were forced to abandon the community. They also appealed to the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, to bring succour to members of the community as they were spending exorbitant amounts to fuel generators to power their houses. It was learnt that the executive members of the Progress Community Development Association, Kajola, facilitated the erection of poles at strategic locations in the community through donations made by landlords in the area. Despite the communal efforts, power has yet to be supplied to the community. A resident, Oluwafemi Alli, while decrying the situation of things in the community, said the residents were expending exorbitant amounts of money on fuelling generators to power their households. He stated, “I have been living in the community since 2014 and I have not seen any public power supply. We use generators to power our homes and we are tired because to buy petrol every day is costly as I spend N7,000 on fuel every week. “We have not enjoyed any government support in Kajola community; the only time we do hear from them is during elections.” Another resident, Bamidele Jegede, said officials of the Ikeja Electric had visited the community for inspection while the poles bought by the residents were being installed, adding that the community needed a transformer and wires to ensure power supply. “Our major problem is access to power; we have not had power supply for over five years and we are speaking out to draw the attention of the government to our plight. Although we have taken some steps, each landlord was asked to pay N150,000, but it was difficult for a lot of people to make the contribution, because of the situation in the country, so the money we gathered through donations was what we used in erecting the poles by engineers of Ikeja Electric. “We are appealing to the state government to help us with the project.” The Chairman, Progress CDA, Kajola, Victor Adeshina, urged the state government and the power firm to support the community through the provision of a transformer and wires to connect residents to electricity. He said, “We are to connect to power from Arepo after getting approval from the IE. We have installed poles in different parts of our community and also an antenna in a waterlogged area, but we need a transformer and wires to connect our community to power. As I speak to you, we power our houses with generators and in a month, I spend N20,000 to buy fuel and maintain my generator. “We secure ourselves, we provide borehole ourselves, everything we have done in this community is by communal effort, so we have not felt the presence of government in our community. We want the government to come to our aid so that we can complete the project, because we have been relying on generators for the past six years.” When contacted, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, said, “The government will look into their request and even though it is apparent that the Federal Government has taken the responsibility off the state government in terms of procurement of electrical poles and transformers, and even the distribution of electricity, but since the people in that community are residents of Ogun State, they too deserve better life, because if they have power, it means they will be able to pay their taxes to the government. “For other communities that are also yearning for similar things, the government will try as much as possible to ensure that their interests are protected and that they are not just mere statistics in government.” The spokesperson, IE, Felix Ofulue, said, “It is evident from our investigation that the community has not officially engaged Ikeja Electric. There is a formal process to engage the company in such a circumstance. Let them reach out to the IE undertaking covering the community and engage us formally.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 