Grace Edema and Peter David, Benin City The Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, has said the state will slide into ruins if the All Progressive Congress gubernatorial candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, is voted into power. A statement signed by the Senior Special Assistant on Media to the Deputy Governor, Benjamin Atu, quoted Shaibu to have said that in the last four years, Edo had witnessed a lot of institutional growth where the government was supreme and not an individual. Shaibu maintained that it would be devastating if such achievements were allowed to be destroyed by Ize-Iyamu and his godparents. The deputy governor was quoted as saying, “We need strong institutions that can make the leap between individuals’ participation in governance possible through collective action and tangible improvements in people’s lives. We are determined to achieve a reversal of Edo’s long slide towards degradation. If Ize-Iyamu and his godparents are allowed into power, the state will slide deeper into ruins. Shaibu explained that the state had been returned to the path of greatness, adding, “Our mission for seeking a second term is to perfect all we have started and lay a developmental benchmark that cannot be reversed or destroyed. We are seeking a second term to establish a common vision for the future of our state.” Meanwhile, The Ijaw people in Edo State have applauded Governor Godwin Obaseki for engendering economic development and improving the lives of the residents. They reaffirmed their support for the governor’s re-election bid to ensure continuity and consolidation of good governance in the state. However, the Ijaw communities, under the aegis of the Ethnic Nationality, declared support for Obaseki’s second term bid during a courtesy visit to the governor at the Government House, Benin City. Representatives of the communities, Chief Joel Wodubamo, Chief Daniel Agagha and Mr Ebiye Milton, urged the governor not to relent in his efforts at transforming the state and positively impacting the lives of Edo people. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 