Wale Oyewale, Ibadan THE Oyo State House of Assembly has advised the sacked chairmen of the 33 local government areas and 35 local council development areas in the state to return all government properties in their possession to their respective councils. This came during a matter of urgent public importance brought before House by the Majority Leader, Sanjo Adedoyin (Ogbomoso South), on Thursday. The Court of Appeal sitting in Ibadan, on Wednesday, ruled in favour of the Oyo State Government that the sacked chairmen failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. The lawmakers noted that the call became necessary in order to ensure accountability and continuity of governance in all the council areas in the state. They urged the Commissioner of Police, Nwachukwu Enwonwu, and other security agencies in the state to intervene by ensuring that all government properties allegedly taken away by the ALGON chairmen were returned to the various councils. The Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, while ruling on the motion, said the properties, especially vehicles allegedly taken away by the sacked chairmen were government properties, which were not acquired by them legally. “The properties were not rightfully acquired by the said chairmen. They can’t continue to keep government properties in their possession. That could amount to theft of government properties,” he added. However, Abidoye Bamigboye (Oriire) and Isiaka Tunde (Oyo East and Oyo West), urged the House not to rule on the motion as the sacked chairmen had promised to head to the Supreme Court. The Deputy Speaker, Mohammed Fadeyi; Francis Adetunji, representing Oluyole, and two other lawmakers countered the observation and urged the House to rule on the motion by directing the sacked chairmen to return all government properties in their possession without further delay. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 