TUNDE OYEKOLA The Afonja Descendants Union of Ilorin, Kwara State, has appealed to the State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, to grade traditional rulers in the five local government areas in the Ilorin Emirate Council. In a statement jointly signed by the ADU President General and Secretary, Alhaji Olola Kasum and Alhaji Hassan Amao respectively, the union said on Friday a situation whereby Yoruba monarchs were not graded was against the oath of allegiance taken by the Emir of Ilorin (Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari) to ensure equity and justice to all monarchs in the emirate. The affected Yoruba monarchs include Oba of Jebba, Ohoro of Shao, Oluo of Oke-Oyi, Alapado of Apado, Afonja of Ilorin, Dado of Oke-so, Alajagusi of Ajagusi and Baale of Afon. Referring to chapter 7, page 31 of a book, ‘Ilorin, the journey so far,’ written by a historian, L.A.K. Jimoh, it said the first Emir of Ilorin, Abdulsalami dan Salih Alimi, was recognised as the Emir of Yoruba by the Gwandu Caliphate in 1842. However, ADU lamented that the emir was not living to expectation by denying the monarchs their constitutional rights. They said, “The Emir of Ilorin cannot have his cake and eat it by enjoying the privileges for permanent first-class Emir of Yoruba while at the same time denying his Yoruba subjects their constitutional traditional rights. “He should learn from the verdict of the past, namely 1913, 1936, 1958, 1969, 1978. He should sheathe his sword and allow peace to reign. He should stop interfering in the smooth administration of the All Progressives Congress government of Kwara State. “The Afonja Descendants Union is appealing to the Kwara State Government under the inspiring governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, to rise up to the occasion to reverse the current trend where Lilliputian historian like Magaji Nda attempts to mislead the state government with false claim of jihad.” Meanwhile, ADU also called on the state government and the Emir of Ilorin to call the Magaji Nda of Ilorin, Alhaji Woru Mohammed, to order before he set the Ilorin Emirate on fire “under the guise of jihad.” While reacting to an interview wherein Mohammed said the strain in the relationship among the people of Ilorin Emirate was long settled by Shehu Alimi during the jihad war in Ilorin, ADU said Ilorin was never a product of jihad. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    