Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The founder, Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Chief Afe Babalola, said on Sunday that the institution had procured and installed smart temperature measuring and disinfectant channels on the campus. Babalola said the channels, which had beefed up the equipment earlier procured and installed in the university, were part of efforts to make the institution COVID-19 free preparatory to the reopening of schools. The ABUAD founder, in a statement in Ado Ekiti by the Head, Corporate Affairs, Tunde Olofintila, listed the equipment procured earlier to include polymerase chain reaction machine, coronavirus test kits for antigen testing, RNA extraction kits, Naso-pharygeal swab sticks and liquid medium, Biosafety Cabinet, an isolation centre and other accessories like micropipettes. He said three of the multi-million naira smart temperature measurement and disinfectant channels, billed for the screening of ABUAD students and staff upon resumption of academic works, were installed each at the university’s main gate, front of the Administrative Block and Multi-system Hospital Gate. Babalola added that the eight other screening channels, which delivery was being awaited, would be installed in front of the various halls of residence in the university. He said, “On stepping into any of the screening channels, it takes the person’s temperature. If the temperature is below 38 degrees, the words ‘You are welcome’ automatically come from within the channel. One will then proceed to use hand sanitiser and go into the main channel, where one’s body will be sprayed with sanitiser. “On the other hand, if one’s temperature is above 38 degrees, the channel will make some loud noise to alert the person and those around that all is not well with the person.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 