BOLA BAMIGBOLA, Edward Nnachi, John Charles, Sunday Nwakanma and Tunde Oyekola  Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, has tested positive for COVID-19. Also, the Secretary to the State Government of Benue State, Prof Tony Ijohor (SAN); the state Head of Service, Veronica Onyeke; and the state Chief of Staff, Terwase Orbunde, were among the 33 people who newly tested positive for COVID-19. In a statement on Saturday, Umahi said the result of the samples taken from him showed that he had tested positive, adding that some of his close aides equally tested positive for the virus. He said although they were asymptomatic, they had isolated themselves in line with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control protocols. Due to the development, Umahi said he had directed his deputy, Mr Kelechi Igwe, to take over the frontline coordination of the state’s fight against the pandemic. He said he would be working from home and that all his meetings would be virtual. Similarly, Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom on Saturday announced that Ijohor, Onyeke, and Orbunde had tested positive for COVID-19. The governor had on Friday announced that his wife, Eunice, son, and some of their domestic workers had tested positive. Ortom said with the rise in COVID-19 cases in the state, the state government might likely order a total lockdown to curtail the spread of the disease. “As my wife rightly announced of her COVID-19 positive status and that of our son late Friday, this should serve as a lesson to our people in the state that no one is immune to COVID-19 and we should all adhere strictly to the protocols set by the World Health Organisation. “Though I am negative, my samples will still be taken in the next three days for another test, but right now, we are all on self-isolation. Already, the Government House is being decontaminated and I have decided to go on self-isolation,” he said. Meanwhile, Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has recovered from COVID-19. According to a statement by the state Commissioner for Information, Chief John Kalu, repeat COVID-19 tests conducted by the NCDC on samples submitted by the governor on Thursday and Friday returned negative. “Governor Okezie Ikpeazu is, therefore, deemed free of the virus according to the extant guidelines of the NCDC and the WHO,” the statement read. Meanwhile, Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Saturday ordered a total lockdown of four local government areas of the state to curtail the community spread of coronavirus. Movement in the affected local government areas which are Ilesa East, Ilesa West, Atakumosa East, and Atakumosa West, will be restricted for seven days in the first instance. A statement by the state Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Funke Egbemode, explained that the decision to lockdown the four council areas was sequel to the meeting between the government and the stakeholders from the areas. Egbemode said the lockdown would commence on Tuesday, July 7, for one week in the first instance, adding that, if the compliance level was not encouraging, the government would announce further extension. She explained that the state was closely monitoring other local government areas with the rising numbers of positive COVID-19 cases in the state, and might in the days ahead, lockdown more areas. She added that the decision to impose a total lockdown on the four local government areas was aimed at containing the spread of the virus in that axis of the state. Egbemode noted that government had every reason to believe that it was already witnessing what looked like community transmission and as such, there was a need to come up with measures to arrest the trend. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com