Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The management of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund has urged to the Federal High Court in Abuja to order the handing over of 46 assets seized from the its former Chairman, Ngozi Olejeme. Justice Taiwo Taiwo had on July 1, 2020, following an ex parte application by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, granted an order of interim  forfeiture of the identified properties, including houses and parcels of land in Bayelsa, Delta and Edo states and Abuja. The judge had in the ruling ordered the commission to advertise the order in a national daily for anyone interested in the assets to apply to claim them and show why they should not be permanently forfeited to the Federal Government, within 14 days. Following the newspaper advertisement, the NSITF management sent its lawyer, Okereke Ezechi, to court on July 27, 2020, with an application requesting the court to order the transfer of the assets to the agency. The agency claimed that apart from its grounds of the application that the NSITF was the principal victim of the alleged crimes committed by Olejeme, who was its board chairman between 2009 to 2015, the said assets were acquired the funds stolen from the NSITF, claiming that it received N62bn during Olejeme’s tenure, but was allegedly diverted through phony contracts. Part of the affidavit, which the agency filed in support of its application read, in part, the “NSITF received N62bn as grants and mandatory contributions from the Federal Government and the private sector employers for the implementation of the employees’ compensation scheme designed to provide fair and adequate compensation to employees who are victims of workplace or work related injuries. “Within the tenure of Ngozi Olejeme as the Chairperson of the Management board of the NSITF, several contracts/consultancy services were not executed, but heavily paid for. “The NSITF, since after the tenure of Ngozi Olejeme and following the monumental withdrawals from its account of money amounting to several billions of naira, has been grappling with the difficulty of fully implementing the employees’ compensation scheme due to paucity of funds occasioned by the fraudulent misappropriation of funds contributed by the Federal Government and private employers for the scheme.” The agency said the property listed for an order of forfeiture were acquired by Ngozi Olejeme during the period she served as chairperson of the management board of the NSITF and the money used in acquiring the said properties belonged to the NSITF. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 