Afeez Hanafi At least seven persons were reported dead while five others were missing on Saturday after flooding ravaged some communities in Suleja, Niger State. The affected communities included Angwagwari, PDP Quarters and Almadina Quarters, with many houses and vehicles submerged by rainwater. Sunday PUNCH learnt that the downpour started around 5am and lasted for about an hour, leaving monumental losses in its trail. A resident of Almadina Quarters, Surajudeen Bello, told our correspondent that 10 houses were affected in the neighbourhood and dozens of locals displaced. He said, “The rain started around 5am when we finished observing subhi (morning) prayer. We were in the mosque when a woman called her husband and informed him that their house had been flooded. By the time we came out of the mosque, everywhere was filled with water. The rain fell for about one hour but it wreaked a lot of havocs. “Many houses and fences collapsed. In my area, more than 10 houses were affected and we found seven corpses – two elderly men, a middle-aged man and a woman as well as three children. Their families have taken their corpses. Some people are still missing. Many cars were also submerged and water destroyed home appliances.” Bello blamed the flooding on poor drainage system and houses built on water right of way, noting that the Saturday incident was the most tragic in recent years. He added, “My house was not affected but no one can go out because there was water everywhere. A bridge linking our community to other neighbourhoods was damaged and vehicles cannot ply it now. “I have been living here for over five years. There was flooding two years ago and two houses were affected but today was the most serious one. There is poor drainage channel in the area. Many houses were also built where water is supposed to pass.” The district head of the community, Mallam Shuaibu Umar, in a telephone interview with Sunday PUNCH, said he was asleep when his daughter alerted him that their compound had been flooded. He said five persons were killed while three others living in the community were missing. He stated, “After I observed prayer, I returned to bed. Shortly afterwards, my daughter woke me up and said our compound had been flooded. Our fence collapsed but the main building is safe. My neighbour’s house collapsed few minutes after the family escaped. The couple and their five children were displaced. “Five corpses were recovered; three children and two elderly persons. In my community, a pregnant woman, a 400-level student and one other resident are still missing. We have never witnessed this kind of flooding before.” The community head of Angwagwari, Mallam Bala Kaburu, stated that the flood destroyed four houses in the area, adding that many people were displaced. The Director General, Niger State Emergency Management Agency, Mr Ahmed Ibrahim, said six corpses had been recovered. He said, “My men who were on the ground confirmed to me that six dead bodies had been recovered while five persons are still missing. Search and rescue operation is still ongoing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com