Adelani Adepegba, Abuja THE Nigeria Labour Congress said on Wednesday that it was horrified by the escalating insecurity in different parts of the country. It also condemned the public execution of five aid workers of Borno State Emergency Management Agency, Action against Hunger, Rich International, and International Rescue Committee by Boko Haram in Borno State last week. The NLC stated that the increasing level of insecurity in some parts of the country was an indication that the current system was not working and should be rejigged. Expressing the union’s worry over the insecurity in the country, the NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, in a statement in Abuja, said the only crime of the deceased was their selfless devotion to alleviating the lot of the hapless civilian population in the North-East. The statement was titled, ‘Stop the rivers of blood: NLC condemns the cruel killings cum violence across the country.’ It observed that in the past seven months, the Boko Haram insurgency and other violence in the country had widened in scope, adding that many intercity and feeder roads in the North-East had been completely abandoned to the terrorists, thereby exacerbating the already precarious humanitarian situation in the region. The congress stated, “We call on the Federal Government to quickly rejig our security apparatus and the security systems it has deployed to fight terrorism and violent crimes. Certainly, the current system is not working.” Owing to renewed attacks in northern Borno State, Wabba observed that people in about 13 local government areas in the state had been displaced and now live in Internally Displaced Persons’ camps. According to him, the people in Mongono; Marte; Kukawa; Abbadam; Guzarualla; parts of Gubio; parts of Magumeri and Nganzai LGAs, parts of Benishek and Konduga, Kalabalge, Dikwa and Ngala LGAs are currently living in IDPs camps. The union further said, “In Southern Borno State and parts of Adamawa State, renewed attacks have led to the complete sacking of the following towns and villages with no single inhabitants there now: Dagu, Huyum, Killekassa, Kopa-maikadiri, Yaffa, Ngurthlaru, Kwabula, Kuburmbula, Kaya, Guryangwal, Shawa, Gogomdi, Gwandang, Gatamarwa, Imirmulza, Thilemakalama, Yaza, Kirchinga, and Mimirsa.” The NLC also highlighted the bloodletting and dislocation in Southern Kaduna, adding that kidnapping, cattle rustling and banditry were the order of the day in northern Kaduna, most parts of Katsina, Sokoto, Zamfara, Taraba, Benue, and Plateau states and other parts of North-Central. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 