Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The National Emergency Management Agency on Friday said it had written letters to state governors informing them that about 102 local government areas in 28 states were highly probable flood risk areas. The agency also stated that it had started stock-piling food and non-food items as part of measures to cushion the devastating effect of the impending floods across the country. It further unveiled a booklet on Disaster Risk Management Implication of 2020 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction. The Director-General, NEMA, Muhammadu Muhammed, told journalists in Abuja that the 2020 Annual Flood Outlook of the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency predicted flooding in parts of Nigeria. He noted that based on the forecast, 102 LGAs in 28 states fall within the highly probable flood risk areas, while 275 LGAs in the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory fall within the moderately probable flood risk areas. “The remaining 397 LGAs fall within the low probable flood risk areas,” Muhammed stated. Meanwhile, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State, Mr Oyintiloye Olatunbosun, has urged the residents of the state to desist from dumping refuse on the waterways, saying engaging in such action portends danger. Oyintiloye, who is the former lawmaker representing Obokun State Constituency, warned that the act of dumping refuse on the waterways was disastrous. The ex-lawmaker, in a statement, said the fact that Osun was listed among flood-prone states as captured in the 2020 Annual Flood Outlook of the NHSA was a warning to the residents to desist from blocking water channels with dirt. Oyintiloye said, “Some local government areas in the state have been listed among highly probable flood risk areas, while 11 local governments have been considered to be probable flood risk areas. With this, we have to be extra careful to prevent the impending calamity.” On some of the measures adopted to mitigate flood impacts, the NEMA boss said, “We have stock-pilled relief materials (food and non-food items) that will be needed in providing succour to people that may be affected. “We have also written letters to inform all the state governors indicating the LGAs that may be affected by the flood and also suggested the proactive mitigation measures that are expected to be taken.” Muhammed said some of the mitigating measures that should be adopted by states include to inform their state emergency management agencies, frontline LGAs and other response agencies to prepare. He said they should carry out enlightenment campaigns, targeting vulnerable communities to undertake mitigation actions and prepare for evacuation to safe grounds. According to him, states should identify high grounds for possible internally displaced persons camps to shelter evacuated communities, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com