Olalekan Adetayo, Eniola Akinkuotu, John Alechenu, Sunday Aborisade, Friday Olokor, Bola Bamigbola, Peter Davis, Peter Dada, Olufemi Olaniyi, Daniels Igoni,Yenagoa and Abiodun Nejo Afenifere leader, Pa Ayo Fasanmi, has died at the age of 94. The Second Republic senator, who was a trained pharmacist, died on Wednesday according to his son, Afolabi. He wrote in a statement, “With gratitude to the Almighty God for a life well spent, we wish to announce the demise of our father, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, at the ripe age of 94 years.” Afolabi said his father, who was a Second Republic senator, died peacefully in Osogbo, Osun State. Until his demise, Fasanmi was the leader of Yoruba socio-cultural group, Egbe Afenifere (Ilosiwaju Yoruba) and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress. He was born 27th September, 1925. Speaking to The PUNCH at his dad’s residence in Osogbo, Afolabi said his father would be buried in Iye Ekiti next week Tuesday, in the same tomb where his late wife, Felicia was buried in 2014. Afolabi said Fasanmi would be buried at the cemetery of Saint John’s Anglican Church, Iye Ekiti. According to him, the wish of his father was to be buried shortly after his passage. Meanwhile, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday described the death of Afenifere’s leader, Pa Ayo Fasanmi, as a big loss to Nigeria. His Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, qouted the President as saying this in a statement. The statement reads partly, “President Muhammadu Buhari joins Yoruba socio-cultural and political organisation, Afenifere, in mourning the passing of Pa Ayorinde Fasanmi, describing his death as a big loss to the nation. “The President condoles with people and government of Osun and Ekiti States, family members, friends and associates of the elder statesman, who served as a legislator in both House of Representatives and the Senate, and distinguished himself politically by always standing for the truth, especially on issues related to the uplifting of the downtrodden.” In the same vein, the South West Governors’ Forum has described the late Afenifere leader as a patriot whose positive exploits would not be forgotten in a hurry. The Chairman of the forum and Governor of Ondo State, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, in a statement by the Ondo State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr Donald Ojogo, said Fasanmi was one of the few men standing, personified integrity and exemplified altruism. The statement reads in part, “His thoughts were laced with candour and palpable emotional attachment for his people, the Yoruba Nation and Nigeria at large. These thoughts were truly Nigerian and reflected in all ways, an inexorable passion for humanity.” Akeredolu further stated that the South-West governors “will commence talks with the immediate family of the deceased to give this patriot, a befitting interment.” Also, the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in a condolence message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, said the death of the nonagenarian came at a critical period when his wealth of experience, knowledge and wisdom was most needed in Nigeria. The statement quoted Sanwo-Olu saying, “Pa Fasanmi, was an exemplary leader who spent the greater part of his life in the service of humanity, particularly the Yoruba course where he contributed to the development of the region.” In the same vein, the Osun State Government, in a statement, by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, said Pa Fasanmi as an icon, left indelible footprints in the sands of time. “Baba Fasanmi was a leader who demonstrated his love for our great country in many laudable ways; but more heart-warming was how he showed optimal concern for the welfare of the poor and underprivileged, and how he held leaders accountable on their promises of good governance,” the statement reads partly. Also, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, the Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, described Fasanmi, as one of the heroes of democracy being enjoyed in the country today. The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum said, “Ekiti is proud to have produced Fasanmi who served as a parliamentarian at different times in the House of Representatives and the Senate.” Similarly, the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, in a statement by his spokesman, Crusoe Osagie, said Senator Fasanmi was a grounded leader and thoroughbred politician. “I received the sad news of the passing of Senator Ayo Fasanmi, with a heavy heart. He was one of the finest politicians around who prioritised the needs of the people above all else,” the statement added. Also, the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Thursday, expressed sadness over the death of Fasanmi. The governor in a statement  by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, described   Fasanmi as one of the great icons who made indelible contributions to lawmaking as a Senator and later member House of Representatives in the Second Republic. The statement reads “His contributions to national development threw him up as not only a leader of Afenifere, the pan Yoruba socio-cultural organisation but as a national hero. This is a very sad loss, indeed, but we cannot question God for calling him at this time.” In the same vein, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Ola Awoniyi, described Fasanmi as a leader who, throughout his life, was committed to the cause of his people and Nigeria. The Senate President added the Nigerians would miss Fasanmi’s forthrightness, consistency, wise counsel and wealth of experience. Also, in his message, the National leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, said Fasanmi was loyal to the progressive cause, adding that with his passing, “we have lost someone special and excellent in every way. Tinubu said, “Papa’s long sojourn on earth was for the good of all. He walked at the vanguard of all democrats, freedom fighters and believers in true federalism. To have lived to the age of 94 was God’s gift not only to him and his family, but to this nation he loved so deeply.” He added that that Fasoranti devoted himself towards progressive development and democratic advancement, lamenting that the job had not been completed. Likewise, a former governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande, said the death of the late Fasanmi had made him a political orphan. Akande in his tribute described Fasanmi’s death as a great loss to the Yoruba nation and to Nigeria as a whole. Akande’s tribute reads partly, “I’m suddenly made a political orphan by the passing of Papa Ayo Fasanmi at this point. It is shocking and very painful to me personally because he was my political godfather since he introduced me to Chief Obafemi Awolowo in 1977.” In a similar development, the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, says the late Fasanmi lived a life of fulfillment. The Spokesman for Afenifere, Mr Yinka Odumakin, said this in a telephone interview with The PUNCH on Thursday. He said, “He lived a long life of fulfillment and we pray his soul rests in perfect peace.” Also, a statement by the leader of Afenifere, Chief Reuben Fasoranti,  said Fasanmi would be remembered as a firebrand member of the Action Group who distinguished himself as a principled fighter for the ideals of late Chief Obafemi Awolowo in the days of siege. Another Afenifere chieftain, Ayo Adebanjo, told The PUNCH that the deceased was one of those who fought for Nigeria’s independence as a foot soldier of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, in the 1950s. The Afenifere chieftain said Fasanmi was also vocal during the struggle for the actualisation of the June 12, 1993 mandate of the late MKO Abiola.” Also, the Yoruba Council of Elders described Fasanmi as a great and committed disciple of Awolowo. The Secretary-General of YCE Dr Kunle Olajide, in an interview with our correspondent in Ibadan on Thursday said the Yoruba race and entire Nigeria would miss him. He said, “Pa Ayo Fasanmi  remained politically active until his death at the age of 94. He lived well. He was one of the very committed disciples of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo.” The immediate past governor of Bayelsa State, Mr Seriake Dickson, has also commiserated with the Yoruba nation on the passing of Senator Ayo Fasanmi who died on Wednesday at the age of 94 Osogbo, Osun State. Dickson, who condoled with the pan-Yoruba, Afenifere, and the All Progressives Congress, said Fasanmi’s demise had created a big vacuum that would be difficult to fill. He stated, however, that the only consolation about the elder statesman’s death was that he lived a life worthy of big celebrations. Dickson noted that as a former senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, he distinguished himself with robust contributions on effective legislation with greater impact on the people of the country. The former governor said Fasanmi would be remembered for his doggedness in the fight for the interest of the Yoruba nation which earned him greater respect among his people. Dickson, who also condoled with his family, said, “Pa Fasanmi was an astute politician. He was a notable Awoist and founding member of the defunct Unity Party of Nigera and Alliance for Democracy. “He played a significant role in the enthronement of democratic rule in the country. It is quite unfortunate that he left when his elderly advice and service is needed in the process of rebuilding our nation.” In its message, the APC said Fasanmi death was a loss not only to the Yoruba race but also to Nigeria. The APC said, “The Yorubas and indeed the nation at large, have lost a father to all, elder statesman, welfarist, second Republic senator and frontline politician whose indelible strides will be forever remembered. “Pa Fasanmi was one of Nigeria’s leading voices who spoke truth to power.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com