Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, warned all his appointees that he would not accept any act of disrespect to the National Assembly. According to a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President handed down the warning while receiving the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The statement was titled “President Buhari reads riot act to ministers, MDAs, Chief Executives on relationship with NASS.” Recall the National Assembly and the Minister of State, Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, were at loggerheads recently over the proposed 774,000 jobs. READ ALSO: Private schools, others to benefit from MSMEs support scheme – Osinbajo Keyamo had engaged members of the Senate and House of Representatives committee in a shouting match on the matter. While the National Assembly ordered Keyamo to suspend the recruitment, the minister had on Tuesday said Buhari had directed him to continue with the process. Also on Thursday, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, shunned the invitation of the House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora on the investigation of trafficking of persons out of Nigeria for the fifth time. Earlier in the day, top officials of the Niger Delta Development Commission walked out of the venue of an investigative hearing being held by the House of Representatives. But according to the statement, the President asked ministers and all heads of departments and agencies to, at all times, conduct themselves in ways that will not undermine the National Assembly as an institution, its leadership and members. The statement read, “President Muhammadu Buhari received in audience the distinguished Senate President Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila at the State House, Aso Villa. “The meeting, which lasted for almost an hour, was characterised by an engaging discussion on a range of key issues of national importance, particularly the role of the Legislature as a critical component in supporting their common goal and commitment towards improving the lives of the people of Nigeria. “In the course of their conversation, recent events at the National Assembly were highlighted and the President re-emphasised his utmost respect for the National Assembly, adding that any disrespect to the institution by any member of the executive branch will not be accepted. “Ministers and all heads of departments and agencies should at all times conduct themselves in ways that will not undermine the National Assembly as an institution, its leadership and members. “The President and the leaders of the National Assembly recognised and acknowledged that the Executive and Legislative arms of government are essential partners in the fulfillment of their mutually aligned goal of improving the lives of the Nigerian people.”