Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna SOME gunmen on Monday evening invaded Gora Gan village in the Zango-Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State and killed no fewer than 10 persons, including the village head. The PUNCH gathered that among those killed was a seven-year-old boy. This is coming less than 24 hours after gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen attacked Kukum Daji village in Kagoro chiefdom of Kaura LGA of the state. At least, 21 persons were reportedly killed in that attack while scores sustained varying degrees of injuries. In the fresh attack, scores of residents also sustained varying degrees of injuries. It was gathered that the gunmen, who came in large numbers, invaded the village at about 7pm on Monday. The Vice Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria in Zango-Kataf LGA, Pastor Isaac Ango-Makama, who confirmed the incident, said several houses were burnt during the attack. He said corpses of victims were deposited at the Zonkwa General Hospital morgue while the injured were rushed to an undisclosed hospital for treatment. “The villagers are still searching for their missing loved ones,” the cleric said. The Secretary of the Mercy Internally Displaced Persons’ camp, Zonkwa, Ezekiel James, said they were in dire need of aids for the displaced persons. James added that the camp was daily receiving victims, who had been displaced following persistent attacks on neighbouring villages. Condemning the incident, the state Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Abraham Catoh, in a statement, said the State Governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai, was not doing enough to curb the insecurity in the state. Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Police Command has yet to confirm the fresh attack. The State Police Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, neither answered a call by our correspondent nor replied the text message sent to him. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 