Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt The Rivers State Police Command on Tuesday arrested a human parts dealer, identified as Anthony Ndubuisi, who allegedly kidnapped, killed and dumped the remains of his four victims in his septic tank A fresh body and three skulls were recovered by the policemen inside his compound in Umuebule community, Etche Local Government Area of the state. The Anti-Kidnapping Unit of the State Police Command arrested the 52-year-old indigene of Ngor Okpala in Imo State, who was residing in Umuebule 1, following intelligence. The suspected, who led the State Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, and other officers of the command to the place the body parts of his victims were hidden, was said to have confessed to the crime upon interrogation. It was gathered that three of the victims were Togolese, while one was from Abia State. Ndubuisi, it was learnt, usually lured his victims to his house, killed them, before requesting for ransom from their relatives. The suspects, who claimed that he became a kidnapper as a result of poverty, added that he had so far made N800,000 from his victims. He said, “I sell shoes, I lure my victims to my house, telling them I want to buy their shoes and when they bring the shoes to my house, I tell them to sit down. READ ALSO: Benin court remands Warri chief over kidnap, murder “When they have sat down, I will go to their back and strangle them to death. I have been doing this for a while now. I collect their shoes when I kill them. “After I did this last one, police started investigating it and they started looking for me. One of my customers called me to come, and when I got to the place at Artillery, the police arrested me.” The Rivers State CP, Joseph Mukan, described the suspect as a serial killer, who would receive ransom and still kill his victims. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com