Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency has closed down some pubs in different parts of the state for violating the state environmental laws and the COVID-19 protocols. The facilities shut by the agency are Farmcity Lekki Lounge located on Admiralty Way, Lekki; Ajah Quilox Pool and Bar, Ajah; Page One, Ajah; and Bien Mange, located at No. 9B Dan Suleiman Crescent, Abraham Adesanya Estate, Ajah. It was gathered that Farmcity was sealed off for violating the environmental law and non-compliance with COVID-19 safety precautions, while Page One was shut for encouraging large gathering of people. Bien Mange was sealed off for converting a residential apartment to a commercial premises and disturbing the peace of other residents. The General Manager, LASEPA, Dolapo Fasawe, stated that the closure of the facilities was in line with the state Environmental Management and Protection Law, 2017. Fasawe, who noted that the operation by LASEPA was aimed at identifying environmental violations across the various facilities, said the agency could not ignore the level of non-compliance with the COVID-19 protocols in all the shut facilities. She said, “The agency acted on a tip-off from a whistle-blower alleging traffic congestion, flagrant disobedience of the environmental laws (public smoking and noise pollution) as well as non-compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocols at the Farmcity. “Upon arrival, the team observed several infractions and pointed out the same to the management, which led to the clearing out of the fun-seekers and the shutting down of the facility for full investigation. “Apart from the environmental contravention observed in some of the facilities visited, we saw clearly that there were so many other pressing issues that needed to be handled and as such, were happy that all other relevant MDAs such as the Lagos State Safety Commission, the Rapid Response Squad, the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority and the Lagos State Task Force are in sync with us in ensuring that the position of the government in flattening the COVID-19 curve is sustained to reduce the number of positive cases  as soon as possible.” Fasawe, who added that the closed facilities violated the use of face mask, social gathering and the curfew, stated that all offenders would be prosecuted. Also speaking, the Director-General, Lagos Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, urged all sectors that had yet to be approved to reopen to remain closed until the state government directed otherwise. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 