John Alechenu, Abuja The All Progressives Congress has said the opposition Peoples Democratic Party was scared of the ongoing forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission, hence its attack on the anti-corruption war of the current regime. This was contained in a statement titled “PDP Dead-Scared of NDDC 19-Year Forensic Audit, Legislative Inquest – APC
…No Sacred Cows in Corruption Fight,” signed by APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, in Abuja, on Tuesday. Nabena was reacting to a statement issued by the PDP on Monday. In the statement, the PDP accused the APC regime of silence in the face of ongoing corruption in several government agencies. Nabena said, “Nigerians can now understand that the PDP is not interested in the current moves by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to reposition the NDDC but the PDP is dead-scared of the outcome of the 2001 to 2019 forensic audit and legislative inquests of the NDDC operations. The PDP is doing everything to sabotage and frustrate the audits.” Nabena said the APC refused to trade words on how successive PDP administrations and their cronies “institutionalised a culture of contract fraud and other corrupt practices” which has robbed the Niger Delta region of badly-needed development. “We will rather monitor and await the findings of the ongoing audits,” he added. READ ALSO: Gbajabiamila gives Akpabio 48 hours to name lawmakers who received NDDC contracts The statement further read, “We must support the forensic audit of the 19 years of the NDDC, which includes the first 4 years of the President Buhari administration as well as well-meaning legislative inquests for the benefit of the Niger Delta region. “As a party, we totally align and support the resolve of President Muhammadu Buhari to audit and reposition the NDDC. As with all institutions of government, we must continue to entrench transparency and accountability. “The commitment of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration remains the rapid and sustainable development of the Niger Delta region. “Hence, the audit must be seen as a decisive move to clear any stumbling block undermining the development of the Niger Delta region. “Has the President Buhari administration demonstrated its zero-tolerance for corruption? An emphatic yes.” Nabena said the regime’s fight against corruption is total, unsparing and there are no sacred cows.