Johnny Edward Striker Kelechi Iheanacho scored for the second consecutive game as Leicester City beat Crystal Palace 3-0 in their PremierLeague clash at the King Power Stadium on Saturday. The Nigerian grabbed the opener in the 49th minute after he was set up by Youri Tielemans before Jamie Vardy’s brace in the 77th minute and added time then ensured an emphatic win for the home side. Vardy’s brace took his top-flight tally to 101 to give Leicester their first win since the restart. Iheanacho, who was replaced in the 64th minute by Dennis Preat, now has five goals in 16 EPL games for Leicester this season. His compatriot, Wilfred Ndidi, was in action for the home team for the entire duration of the game. At Old Trafford, Odion Ighalo featured for 10 minutes in Manchester United’s 5-2 home win against Bournemouth. Ighalo replaced Marcus Rashford in the 80th minute for his eighth substitute appearance for Manchester United in the EPL. The 31-year-old is still looking for his first league goal for the Red Devils. In the Championship, Leon Balogun was forced off after five minutes due to a groin injury in Wigan Athletic’s 3-0 away defeat to Brentford on Saturday. It was Balogun’s eighth league appearance for the Latics, following his arrival from Brighton in January. Also in England’s second tier, Ovie Ejaria provided an assist in Reading’s 5-0 win against Luton Town at the Madejski Stadium. Ejaria set up Ivorian forward Yakou Meite for his third goal of the game in the 35th minute. In Spain, Ramon Azeez was an unused substitute in Granada’s s 2-2 draw at home to Valencia. Azeez, 27, has made 21 LaLiga appearances and has scored twice. In the Italian Serie A, Ola Aina played for 84 minutes in Torino’s 4-1 loss at Juventus. Aina was cautioned on the hour mark before he was substituted for Lorenzo De Silvestri six minutes from time. In Serie B, Simy Nwankwo scored a hat-trick in Crotone’s 3-0 win over Serie B leaders Benevento on Friday. The 28-year-old’s goals secured the Pythagoreans’ first win since the restart of the Italian second division after three consecutive draws. The treble stretched Nwakwo’s tally to 16 goals after 31 league appearances this term and he is currently enjoying his best goalscoring run in Italy since his arrival from Portuguese outfit Gil Vicente in 2016. His 16 goal tally currently stands him a goal shy of joint top scorers Pietro Iemmello of Perugia and Trapani’s Stefano Pettinari, on the Serie B top scorer’s chart. In Norwary, Izunna Uzochukwu came on for Stale Saethre in the 81st minute of Aalesund’s 1-1 draw away to Valerenga. The game was Uzochukwu’s fifth substitute appearance since he returned from a cruciate ligament injury. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 