Chukwudi Akasike A truck driver, who identified himself as Azeez, escaped being electrocuted on Monday after his vehicle with Registration No. Ogun LAR 700 YD, which he used to convey gravels, pulled down live electric cables. The incident, which happened at about 5.15pm on Monday, along Association Avenue in Arigbede community, Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State, caused momentary power outage. The driver was said to have escaped death by the whisker as he avoided stepping on any of the naked wires. Residents, who rushed out from their homes, were sent back by a group of men blocking the road to prevent any unsuspecting passerby from stepping on the dangerous naked cables. While two of the cables later fell on the ground, the remaining one firmly trapped between the body and the edge of the IVECO truck’s cargo bed. Apparently too shocked to speak on how the incident happened, the driver was only able to give his name, but an eyewitness said the cargo bed of the truck hooked about three cables after dropping its content at a building site. The eyewitness, who did not mention his name, said the driver jumped out f the truck immediately he heard people screaming that he had pulled down the cables. READ ALSO: Reps probe resignation of 365 soldiers He said, “The driver is still shocked and cannot talk now. You can see that two of the three cables are on the ground, while one is hooked to the truck. The driver was fast to leave the car and was careful enough not to have stepped on any of the cables. “If he had stepped on any of the cables, he would have been a dead man. But we thank God, he didn’t. One of the landlords in the area has called some NEPA (Ikeja Disco) officials to immediately disconnect electricity supply.” However, the driver (Azeez) did not leave until officials of the power distribution company came in, removed a fuse supplying light to the area before hooking up the line. Power was, however, restored to the excitement of residents of Association Avenue within two hours as the Disco officials worked to fix the fallen cables.