Oladimeji Ramon Four out of the five defendants standing trial alongside alleged kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, alias Evans, have filed a no-case submission, urging the court to dismiss the charges against them and set them free. The defendants are facing trial before the Lagos State High Court in Ikeja over the kidnap of the Chief Executive Officer of Maydon Pharmaceutical Limited, Donatus Dunu, in 2017. Those standing trial alongside Evans are Uche Amadi, Ogechi Uchechukwu, Chilaka Ifeanyi, Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu and Victor Aduba. At the hearing on Friday, Uchechukwu, Ifeanyi, Nwachukwu and Aduba, through their lawyers, Roger Adewole, Olanrewaju Ajanaku, M.C. Izokwu and Emmanuel Ochai, respectively, insisted that the prosecution failed to establish a prima facie case against them, and urged Justice Hakeem Oshodi to dismiss the charges against them. But the Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), who led the prosecution team, vehemently opposed the defendants. “The defendants are asking the court to do something that cannot be done. There is before the court, legally admissible prima facie evidence enough for the defendants to enter their defence,” Onigbanjo added. The four defendants, who filed no-case submission, are Ogechi Uchechukwu, Chilaka Ifeanyi, Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu, and Victor Aduba. The second defendant, Amadi, did not file a no-case submission, while Evans’ lawyer was absent from court. Noting that absence of defence lawyer had repeatedly stalled the case, Justice Oshodi directed the Lagos State Office of the Public Defender to defend Evans for free. “There are five other defendants with different counsel; the interest of the first defendant (Evans) is not superior to those of the other defendants. “The court will not breach Section 36(6) of the 1999 Constitution by going ahead with today’s business of the court which is the hearing of the no-case submissions,” the judge said, while directing an OPD lawyer, Ms E.E. Okonkwo, to takeover Evans’ defence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com