As the Nigerian culinary landscape expands and finds new interpretations for traditional Nigerian cuisine, they are providing incentives for the average Nigerian to become more adventurous with food. From giving local food and ingredients a contemporary lift to trying out and sometimes merging foreign delicacies to fit our taste buds, the way we approach food and the different things we do with it continues to yield excellent results. Yoghurt has always been an integral part of the cuisine of several Nigerian ethnic groups. Particularly nomadic groups like the Fulani, who have several delicacies including Fura da Nono that uses yoghurt as a primary ingredient. From being a treat for children and adults alike, to serving as the perfect base for a parfait, Nigerians love their yoghurt. And being one of the most vibrant, resourceful and creative people in the world, they like it in the various forms it can possibly take. The versatility of yoghurt is perhaps why it remains a favorite for many Nigerians who like to blend different tastes together to produce a uniquely different one. Breakfast time finds many Nigerians drinking a glass or pet carton of yoghurt along with their morning meal. Then of course, there is snack time where flavored yoghurts – Strawberry, plain, and orange being the people’s favorite, are the preferred accompaniments to our favorite snacks. Members of the fit-fam can also attest to the fact that yoghurt is a great treat for our cheat days, and the best side-buddy to our favourite meals. As a people with adventurous tastes, we are always open to new beverage brands, and with yoghurt, there is always the chance to explore a fresh twist to our beloved dairy. And that’s what FrieslandCampina WAMCO, the makers of Peak Milk offered us with Peak Yoghurt. A relatively new product in the market, it is an offering that grows the line of products Nigeria’s most affable dairy brand offers to the Nigerian market and delivers on its continuing promise to provide nutrient-filled and rich tasting dairy products. For over 60 years, Peak has dominated the Breakfast table of Nigerians with nutritious dairy offerings in various pack sizes and formats mainly liquid (evaporated), powder (IMP) and now the ready-to-drink Yoghurt that comes in different exciting flavours. In early 2019, Peak Yoghurt was introduced into the Nigerian dairy market, in some selected cities as the pilot market with little or no marketing support aside product sampling in selected retail stores. Despite minimal marketing efforts, the feedback received from consumers based on the sampling activations, were largely positive and provided evidence for good results for the medium size pack (318ml) and the large pack size (1 Litre). In December 2019, a third pack size (100ml) was introduced to meet the nutritional needs of school age students in primary and secondary schools. The attention paid to making nutrient filled yoghurts with accessible commercial appeal is something that many Nigerians might not notice, but find themselves inevitably drawn to. It is exciting to see food manufacturers handling their production with nuance, particularity and attention to nutrition. As against some other yoghurt products that have focused disproportionately on taste with little regard to the nutritional benefits their products can provide, FrieslandCampina is steadily driving a culture of eating healthy and richly. With the great taste, different flavours and amazing health benefits, what’s not to love? There is no questioning the fact that Nigerians love their yoghurt, and even more their Peak Yoghurt!