Tunde Ajaja Geopoll, a company that conducts surveys and provides remote research solutions, says a survey it conducted in Nigeria and four other African countries showed that more than three-quarters of the participants recorded a drop in their income during the raging COVID-19 pandemic. The survey, which was also conducted in Ivory Coast, Kenya, Mozambique and South Africa, also showed that people in the informal sector, particularly those in trade and agriculture, and low-income earners were the worst hit by the economic hardship occasioned by the pandemic. It said in a statement on Thursday that 2,500 respondents participated in the survey, conducted remotely via SMS between June and July. The report is titled, ‘Financial Impact of Coronavirus in Sub-Saharan Africa.’ On the income change as a result of COVID-19, the report noted that of the persons sampled, only one per cent said their income increased significantly; four per cent said their income increased a bit; 21 per cent said there was no change in their income; 27 per cent said their income decreased a bit, while 49 per cent said their income decreased significantly. The statement quoted the Vice-President Marketing & Content, GeoPoll, Roxana Elliott, as saying, “The closure of borders, restriction on movement and suspended education and hospitality sectors have wrought financial havoc across the African nations studied, with those in informal employment being the hardest hit. “With many Sub-Saharan Africans still excluded from borrowing, the impact of the pandemic on income and employment, which has hit the lowest income earners the hardest, will make paying for basic expenses such as food and rent a challenge for millions over the coming months.” The report noted that as economies begin to reopen, governments and other organisations would be weighing the need to prevent increased infections with the economic hardships many are facing. “In order to assist recovery efforts, there will be a need for ongoing research into who is being most impacted, what assistance they most need and if the recovery is being felt by those on the ground,” it added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 