AFEEZ HANAFI and ADA WODU Traders in Calabar, Cross River State, have lost goods worth millions of naira following the destruction of over 100 shops by fire at Marian Market. According to eyewitnesses, the fire which broke out on Friday night, was allegedly caused by an electrical fault in a shop after power was restored to the area. They said they alerted the fire service which failed to respond on time until it spread to other shops before the Nigerian Navy fire truck intervened to bring it under control. A victim, Mrs Eme Bassey, 54, lamented that the fire destroyed her goods worth N300, 000 along with her shop. She said, “I received supply of water melon worth over N500, 000 from my major distributor in Makurdi three days ago. This fire outbreak has rendered me hopeless for now. “I don’t even know where to start because my shop was also burnt to ashes. This is too painful for me to bear under this harsh Covid-19 period.” The Director General of Cross River State Emergency Management Agency, Mr Princewill Ayim, sympathised with the traders, assuring them that something would be done to assist the victims. Meanwhile, there was gridlock on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on Saturday after a petrol tanker fell and spilled its content at Berger, inward Kara Bridge, around 10am. Many commuters spent hours in the traffic while emergency responders made efforts to evacuate the tankers. The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency said it received distress calls concerning heavy traffic along the expressway–both inward and outward and down to the Secretariat– and activated a response team to the scene. The LASEMA General Manager, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyitolu, said, “Upon arrival at the scene of the incident, it was revealed that the traffic was as a result of two tankers loaded with PMS involved in a collision at Berger, while one of the them subsequently spilled its contents into the nearby drainage. “No casualty was recorded. The area has been blanketed to forestall a secondary occurrence. Trans-loading concluded and the affected tankers had been moved off the road and handed over to the Ojodu Berger Division.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com