Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government has carried out some changes in the top management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. It made new appointments and redeployments at the corporation and confirmed Friday’s exclusive report of The PUNCH on resignation of NNPC’s Chief Operating Officer, Ventures and New Business Directorate, Roland Ewubare. Announcing the changes at the corporation in a statement issued on Sunday by the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, NNPC, Kennie Obateru, the oil firm said the move would reposition the corporation for greater efficiency. It said the Group General Manager, Crude Oil Marketing Division, Adokiye Tombomieye, was appointed the new Chief Operating Officer, Upstream. The Managing Director Nigerian Gas Marketing Company, Mohammed Abdulkabir Ahmed, was appointed the new Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Services, following the retirement of Farouk Garba Sa’id last week. The change witnessed the redeployment of Adeyemi Adetunji, the Chief Operating Officer, Upstream, to the Ventures and Business Development Directorate as COO, a position left by Ewubare. The top-level staff movement also affected Billy Okoye, who was redeployed from the NNPC Retail Limited (Managing Director) to replace Tombomieye as the Group General Manager, Crude Oil Marketing Division. Elizabeth Aliyuda, the General Manager, Sales and Marketing, NNPC Retail Limited, takes over from Okoye. Similarly, Usman Farouk, Executive Director Asset Management and Technical Services at the NGMC took over from Ahmed. The corporation said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had accepted the resignation of Ewubare, while the retirement of the Sa’id had also received the President’s approval. The Group Managing Director, NNPC, Mele Kyari, said the new appointments would enable the corporation live up to the expectation of its shareholders. He said it would give impetus to the ongoing restructuring within the corporation, which, according to him, was in line with the corporate vision of transparency, accountability and performance excellence. Meanwhile, it was further gathered that the present management composition of the corporation was dominated by officials from North-East, as three top management staff hail from the region. The North-West, North-Central and South-South regions have one representatives each on the current management of the national oil firm. Also, the South-East and South-West regions have one representatives each in the NNPC management.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 