Nike Popoola Experts have said credit guarantees schemes are popular policy instruments created to alleviate the credit constraints faced by small and medium-sale enterprises. They spoke during a webinar by the Development Bank of Nigeria, with the theme, ‘Risk sharing: A key driver for increased financial access and economic development for MSMEs.” The bank disclosed this in a statement on Friday, entitled ‘Credit guarantee: A tool for increased access to finance for MSMES, says DBN.’ It said in Nigeria, there were some challenges with risk sharing in the local market as most MSMEs did not fully grasp the concepts of risk sharing and credit guarantees. The Group Head, Emerging Business, Access Bank Plc, Mrs Ayodele Olojode, explained that MSMEs did not have regular and sustained access to finance because of limitations such as high interest rates, lack of tangible collateral and economic conditions. “Risk sharing facilities will help increase access to finance, which helps MSMEs grow, and increases employment and output in the economy,” she said. She explained that the credit guarantee industry in Nigeria was still at a nascent stage, where the volume of guarantees and the size of the industry contributions to SMEs remained low compared to its peers in other economies. “Credit guarantee is the future because it will compensate for insufficient collateral, provide regulatory capital relief for banks, growth for MSMEs, increased economic GDP and job creation,” she said. The Senior Financial Sector Specialist, World Bank, Mr Ahmed Rostom, shared data from surveys carried out by the World Bank between April and March 2020. While showing the impact that the pandemic had had on the Nigerian economy, he said 42 per cent of individuals who were working before March 2020, especially those working in the hospitality and service industry, were no longer working. He described the situation as disturbing. The Managing Director, JNC International, Mrs Claire Omatseye, stressed the importance of risk sharing among all stakeholders. “For MSMEs, risk sharing helps eliminate financial oppression and predatory lending, while also ensuring prosperity is shared equitably,” she said. For the government, she added that risk sharing contributed to the realisation of its economic objectives and stabilisation policies.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  