Ada Wodu, Calabar Four suspected kidnappers were paraded in Calabar by the police after a 38-year-old victim, Cecilia Onyago, was rescued. The Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Irene Ugbo, who paraded the suspects at the State Police Headquarters, Diamond Hill, Calabar on Monday, said the breakthrough was recorded by the Command. The suspects are Eyo Nsa aka Eteobong, Okon Asuqwuo aka Okikpo, Ernest Okon Akpan, and Paulinus Mbey Ogar. According to her, Onyago was rescued without payment of any ransom, adding, “We are working to make sure that kidnapping is no more in the state. We urge Cross Riverians to provide us with information which would enable us to work harder and pick these hoodlums where ever they may be.” She explained that a husband and wife were going about their normal business when armed kidnappers came in and kidnapped the woman on July 10, 2020, in Akamkpa Local Government Area of Cross River State. Read also: “The police got distress calls from the people and we swung into action. In a bid to know the locations where the woman was taken to, we got one of the suspects who led us to the arrest of other gang members. “Right now, the suspects are in our custody, a lot of items have been recovered including two vehicles, Toyota Camry with registration number NEM 828 AY and Volkswagen Jetta car with registration number LSD 879 AV and several local guns,” Ugbo said. Ugbo said that the suspects have given the police useful information, adding, “As soon as investigations are completed the suspects will be charged to court. “We are very happy about the success recorded because Cross River State is noted for being a place people come and relax and police are working tirelessly to make sure hoodlums are brought to book. “Every evening, we have a team of police officers in different locations doing-stop-and-search; it is a regular exercise which the outgoing Police Commissioner, Uche Anozia put in place. “We urge all Cross Riverians to cooperate with us, give us useful information to make sure that these bad boys are apprehended. We want timely information that will help us reach these bad boys.”