Tunde Odesola Coronavirus is death’s latest stranglehold on the breath called life. Its mishmash surname, COVID-19, gives no damn about breaking ocular dams and flooding households with tears. Since 2019, COVID-19 has been busy digging numberless graves worldwide, handing out shrouds to families to wrap their dead. Coronavirus isn’t joking. It’s seriously grinding humanity to a helpless, fatal submission. It’s bent on making the earth a Golgotha of skulls and bones. Mother Earth needs urgent help before it’s too late. Prayer reflects the gratitudes, needs, hopes and fears of a people. A family in the Sahara Desert where camels and donkeys are the only means of transport won’t pray for protection against automobile accidents, rather, water would feature prominently on the list of their supplications. Whilst foraging for daily bread, Nigerians pray to not become food to the birds of the sky and the beasts of the field. This prayer encrypts the nastiness, shortness and unpredictability of life in Nigeria. Agbako is the unforeseen evil that mows its victims down at the junction of coincidence. I pray, may we never accost Agbako. May we not travel when the road thirsts for blood. Last week, I was inadvertently exposed to coronavirus through someone in my office, who had a cough and subsequently went for a test. When his result came out positive, I neither fainted nor shivered, but, in my prayerful mind, I soberly recalled how many times he coughed when I was very close to him without my face mask on and also asked myself if our physical proximity was enough for coronavirus to make me a host. ‘Yari’ is a Yoruba verb that means ‘protest’ or ‘refuse’. Immediately the result came out positive, everyone in the office was told to go for a test while the gentleman with the virus was admitted to hospital. The company didn’t say the gentleman had an ‘undisclosed ailment’, a particular parlance in Nigeria’s power circle. Nobody played the big man. Everyone was provided with complete protective gears. Nobody ‘YARIed’ like a covidiot refusing to adhere to safety protocols and pushing people away in the public domain. The human mind could be very mischievous. Prior to the announcement of the result, I had a nagging pain at the tip of my right shoulder blade and a tiny boil had surfaced on my upper left eyelid. “Eledumare”, I said to myself, “have the symptoms of coronavirus mutated to include shoulder blade pain and boil? Ao ma ni se agbako o?” Clinically approved hand sanitisers have between 65 and 75% alcohol content. Long before coronavirus knocked on the door of my office, I had combed liquor stores and got a drink with 95% alcohol by volume to which I added a few drops of Tea Tree Oil to make a most potent sanitiser. Americans are a very forthcoming people. After the gentleman in my office tested positive for COVID-19, a couple of my colleagues at work openly said they couldn’t taste or smell, foretelling the onset of the virus. I was grateful; I could still taste banga soup and smell the pungent alcoholic content of the liquor called Everclear with which I daily sanitise my hands, swab my nostrils and ears intermittently. Though my body temperature ranged gratefully between 97.4°F and 97.7°F, I hung two face masks on the indicator stalk of my car’s steering wheel and another two on the wiper stalk. Oju ni alakan fi nsori affirms the eternal vigilance of the crab’s unblinking eyes. Back to my workplace. When you go for COVID test, which is free to all members of the public, you’re expected to stay away from work, pending the time your result would be out. While away from work, your full hours would be paid. Whether your result comes out negative or positive, you would be paid your full hours all through your quarantine and treatment. Upon learning about these measures, the response of my fatherland, Nigeria, to the pandemic saddened me. The test centre was located in a park. It was a drive-thru – meaning that nobody got out of their vehicles. The single-line traffic was long, but very orderly and steady. Nobody shunted the traffic. There were no siren-blaring convoys. As you drive into the park, an official gives you a paper to fill in your personal information, and you move with the traffic flow. There was nobody on foot. No Area Boys loitered. When I finally reached the test arena gan-gan, I wound down my glass and a white female medic explained the procedure to me. Jokingly, she assured me that the nasal swab won’t reach to the back of my brain and we both laughed. Because I had heard about tales of painful test experiences from friends, I gingerly removed my glasses and face mask as I prepared to flinch at a most harrowing experience. In a twinkle, the medic put the swab into my nostril, swabbed and removed it painlessly. Shocked, I asked her, “Are you done?” “Yes,” she answered. “It didn’t get to the back of my brain,” I said. She burst into laughter as I drove off, turned on the car stereo and resumed listening to King Sunny Ade’s ‘E su biribiri k’ebomi’ which I enjoyed on my way to the test centre. If I was to subtitle ‘E su biribiri k’ebomi’ in English, I’d call it ‘Crossroads’. In the evergreen song, the singer is at a crossroads in his odyssey but remains courageous and confident about surmounting the odds. He sets out by acknowledging God, the elders and spirits of the land even as he continues to lament his strandedness. In a litany of errors, his enemies dip the feathers of agbe, aluko, odidere and lekeleke in wrong potions, making the various birds flourish rather than flounder. He recounts the taboos of the land and grandstands over how the gods overlook his foibles. Like the singer, Nigerian President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is stranded at a crossroads. Unlike the musician, however, Buhari has no idea about how to surmount the odds. While the singer is confident and courageous, Buhari is confused. Instead of embarking on redeeming actions, the President’s action and inaction dips the fate of the country further into doom. These sad conclusions are evident in the shameful fights within the All Progressives Congress. Explaining why the Buhari regime failed to deliver on the promised dividends of democracy in its first term, the APC blamed former Senate President Bukola Saraki and his co-travellers for distracting Buhari’s regime. The ruling party was more than happy when Saraki and his cohort lost their reelection bids, and another APC member, Ahmed Senator Lawan, emerged Senate President. Just 14 months into Buhari’s second term, the APC has been enmeshed in dishonourable infightings that reveal that the party is worse than the Peoples Democratic Party, whose 16-year political apocalypse now seems like a time in paradise. Before the end of his first term, Buhari entered into history books as the first Nigerian leader whose domestic affairs ceaselessly boiled over into public glare with his wife, Aisha, engaging relatives and aides in roforofo fights. Truly, the APC is blessed with political kung fu fighters who can compete in the Ultimate Fighting Championship. Some of the bouts which Nigerians were treated to include Abba vs I-sha (Seasons 1-10), Magu vs Malami (Blockbuster), Oshiomhole vs Obaseki (Combat), Akpabio vs Nunieh (Slugfest), I-sha vs Tunde (Family War); Abike-Dabiri vs Pantami (Landlord-Tenant Fight), Kyari vs Babagana Monguno (Heavyweight), Kyari vs Oyo-Ita (Winner-Takes-All), Isaac Adewole vs Usman Yusuf (Cage Fight); Kachikwu vs Baru (Pay-Per-View), Keyamo vs NASS (Market Noise), Oshiomhole vs Ngige (Garage Fight), IG vs Musliu Smith (Insubordination Bout), DSS vs Magu (Arms Struggle), Bourdillon vs Katsina (Fight-of-the-Century)… Bottles break, heads bleed, tragedy looms, Buhari blooms. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 