John Alechenu and PETER DADA Scores of All Progressives Congress members in Ondo State, on Saturday, protested against the indirect mode  reportedly adopted by the national leadership of the party for the primary, which holds on July 20. The protesters, who convened at Oba Adesida Road, Akure, the Ondo State capital, threatened that the party would collapse in the state if the indirect mode of primary was adopted to choose the party’s candidate for the October 10 governorship election. The protesters chanted various solidarity songs and carried placards with inscriptions such as ‘We want direct primary for the sake of equity and the good of all’, ‘We don’t want Zamfara State experience’, ‘Give us direct primary in Ondo State’, ‘APC is our party, give us direct primary,’ ‘Save Ondo APC, direct primary will save our party from imminent collapse’. A lawyer and one of the protest leaders, Mr Segun Ogodo, said the protest was to let the National Caretaker Committee of the party know that the APC members in Ondo State would not accept indirect primary. He said, “We have to protest against indirect primary because the attempt by the committee to impose it on us will not do the party any good. There is a peculiar situation in Ondo State we have two factional state executives, and in such case, the indirect primary will not work. “Of the 11 cleared aspirants, 10  chose direct primary but only one person said he wanted indirect. So if the majority of the party members say they want direct primary, the wish of the minority should not be imposed on the majority. This is a democracy.” Another protester and party member, Mr Rotimi Ogunleye, said they wanted direct primary because there were two parallel executives. He said, “For the sake of equity, the wish of the majority of members should be respected. Without equity, the whole process would be thwarted. “The caretaker committee should listen to the 10 governorship aspirants. They must not adopt the indirect primary because they know the mood of the members in Ondo State. They must not adopt a mode that will give an advantage to a certain aspirant over others.” Meanwhile, following the submission of the report of the Tijjani Tumsa-led All Progressives Congress Screening Committee for the Ondo State governorship primary, the appeal committee is scheduled to meet and consider the report on Monday, Sunday Punch has learnt. The screening panel on Friday submitted its report.  Eleven of the 12 aspirants seeking to contest the primary were cleared while an unnamed aspirant was disqualified. There are speculations that Dr Olusegun Abraham was the aspirant who was disqualified, but he told Sunday Punch, over the telephone on Saturday, that he wouldn’t respond to speculations. He said, “Nobody has told me any such thing. If it is true, I will at least be told.” A party source also said the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker / Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee would also be meeting within the week to consider the reports of both the screening and appeal committee to come out with a final verdict. The Buni-led panel is expected to examine a petition signed by 11 of the aspirants rejecting the indirect mode of primary published by the Independent National Electoral Commission on its website as the mode chosen by the APC for its Ondo governorship primary. The petition dated  July 8, 2020, and addressed to the Caretaker Committee Chairman, titled, “Why indirect primary cannot be an option for Ondo State Governorship Primary Election”, said the direct mode was the most preferred and acceptable to aspirants as well as party supporters across the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    