A Nigerian-trained physician, Dr Stella Immanuel, is trending on social media after delivering an emotional COVID-19 speech in the United States on Monday. The video has, however, been deleted by Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube for passing misinformation. Speaking at a news conference in Washington, Immanuel claimed that hydroxychloroquine, zinc and Zithromax were effective cures for the virus. The doctor spoke during the event organised by a group of American doctors under the aegis of “America’s Frontline Doctors” in front of the US Supreme Court in Washington DC. The doctors are holding a two-day “White Coat Summit” at the Capitol Hill to address what they call a “massive disinformation campaign” surrounding the virus. Immanuel dismissed experts’ warning that hydroxychloroquine could cause serious heart problems for coronavirus patients, citing her experience with the use of the drug. The Nigerian-trained, who was joined by other frontline doctors, said she had successfully treated no fewer than 350 patients with hydroxychloroquine, zinc, and Zithromax. Immanuel also said hydroxychloroquine, long touted by President Donald Trump as cure for the virus, could also prevent the disease. She said, “Hello, I’m Dr. Stella Immanuel. I’m a primary care physician in Houston, Texas. [READ ALSO] AfDB probe: Independent panel clears Adesina as election holds Aug “I actually went to medical school in West Africa, Nigeria, where I took care of malaria patients, treated them with hydroxychloroquine and stuff like that. “So I’m actually used to these medications. I’m here because I have personally treated over 350 patients with COVID-19. Patients that have diabetes, patients that have high blood pressure, patients that have asthma, old people … I think my oldest patients are 92 … 87-year-olds. “And the result has been the same. I put them on hydroxychloroquine, I put them on zinc, I put them on Zithromax, and they’re all well. “For the past few months, after taking care of over 350 patients, we’ve not lost one. Not a diabetic, not somebody with high blood pressure, not somebody who asthma, not an old person. “We’ve not lost one patient. And on top of that, I’ve put myself, my staff, and many doctors that I know on hydroxychloroquine for prevention, because by the very mechanism of action, it works early and as a prophylaxis. “I know you’re going to tell me that you treated 20 people, 40 people, and it didn’t work. I’m a true testimony. “So I came here to Washington DC to tell America nobody needs to get sick. This virus has a cure. It is called hydroxychloroquine, zinc, and Zithromax. “I know they don’t want to open schools. No, you don’t need people to be locked down. There is prevention and there is a cure.” Immanuel, who said she had received several threats to have her practice permit revoked, insisted she would continue to administer the drugs on COVID-19 patients to save more American lives. A Los Angeles-based emergency medicine specialist, Dr Simone Gold, who moderated the news conference, described Immanuel as a warrior. “Before I introduce the next guest, I just want to say that I wish all doctors that are listening to this bring that kind of passion to their patients,” Gold said. (NAN)