Lara Adejoro Patients who are billed to undergo surgical procedures at the Federal Government-owned Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, are being mandated to equip their surgeons before they can be scheduled for their surgeries. The patients are required to buy disposable goggles, face masks, disposable gowns, polypropylene mesh and Home Medical Equipment — a category of devices used for patients whose care is being managed from home or other private facility managed by a nonprofessional caregiver or family member. This is separate from the charges they will still pay for the surgery, PUNCH HealthWise can report. A patient at the tertiary hospital who decried the high cost of the surgical materials billed for his surgery said the materials alone cost N74,400, excluding the cost of surgery. He presented his receipt showing the list of materials he is mandated to buy and the total cost —N74,400 (seventy-four thousand, four hundred naira only). The receipt, dated 20th May, 2020 and issued on LUTH’s letterhead as ‘prescription’ bill, lists the following: The patient, who preferred anonymity, told PUNCH HealthWise that the cost of the materials was out of reach of ordinary Nigerians. He frowned upon a situation where he would be made to buy surgical materials and still pay for the cost of surgery and post-surgery management. He called on the Federal Government to urgently look into the matter, lamenting that medical equipment has gone up as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The World Health Organisation described the out-of-pocket payments like this as “catastrophic expenditure.” The United Nations agency noted that out-of-pocket payments are part of the health financing landscape in all countries relying on user fees and co-payments to mobilise revenue and rationalise the use of health services. It warned that “Unregulated direct charges often constitute a major access barrier to needed health care and contribute to high out-of-pocket payments generating problems of financial protection.” In an interview with our Correspondent, the Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Prof. Wasiu Adeyemo, said the situation was normal. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com