Sodiq Oyeleke Lagos State Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, has announced the reopening of the State Secretariat, Alausa as well as other government establishments. Muri-Okunola in a state on Friday said the offices would be reopened from Monday. He said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu approved the reopening as part of the gradual easing of the existing lockdown in Lagos State. The HoS said the approval was contained in a circular with the Reference Number CIR/HOS/’20/Vol.1/046. The re-opening of the Secretariat, Muri-Okunola said, “would be subject not only to the conditions earlier specified prior to the announcement of the lockdown, vide Circulars Ref. Nos.: CIR/ HOS/ ’20/Vol.1 / 031, 037 and 039 of 3rd, 20th and 22nd March, 2020 respectively, on measures to contain the pandemic, but also on some new protocols as well”. Listing some of the new protocols, the circular stated that “officers on Grade Levels 12 and below must continue working from home, unless otherwise directed by their Accounting Officers, with the exception of Frontline Responders and other essential Health Workers, irrespective of Grade, as well as Enforcement Agencies”. READ ALSO: COVID-19: Lagos issues guidelines for transport operations The HoS urged “Accounting Officers to carry out a Needs Assessment of critical Staff, identify essential Officers and draw up a Flexible Work Roster for Officers on Grade Levels 13 and above, in compliance with the Physical Distancing Principle as stated by the World Health Organisation”. While advising officers in need of medical assistance to do so via consultation through telephone or online in order to minimise and eliminate visits to the Staff Clinic and Hospitals, the HoS implored “all sick persons to stay away from the office”. He maintained that all public servants must abide by the 8 p.m to 6 a.m curfew pronounced by Mr. Governor, pointing out that “the Secretariat and other Government Establishments would remain shut to members of the public and non-staff who are advised to conduct their affairs through other channels such as telephone, emails and online platforms. Muri-Okunola also encouraged Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), to ensure adequate personal hygiene by providing liquid soap with running water at all entrances and in toilets for regular and thorough washing of hands.