Adelani Adepegba, Abuja A Nigerian lady, identified as Adetomisin, who was allegedly trafficked to Oman has cried out for rescue, saying she was tricked to the Arab country. The Ondo State indigene explained in a video that she was initially promised a job in the United States, but found herself in Oman. This is happening a few days after another Nigerian lady, Busari Peace, was put for sale on Facebook for $1,000 by a Lebanese, Wael Jerro. She was subsequently rescued by the Nigerian Mission in Beirut, Lebanon. The PUNCH had also reported the plight of a 27-year-old lady, Adedeji Suliyat, who was trafficked to Oman and starved of food for three weeks. In the video posted on Youtube, Adetomisin stated that on arrival in Oman, her passport and other personal items were confiscated, while she was dispatched to work as a domestic help and shop attendant for an Omani, who allegedly subjected her to all forms of abuse, including sexual harassment. Adetomisin, who had spent over one year in captivity said, “After I finished my NCE programme, there was no job and I chose to travel. My agent said he would help me to secure a job in the United States but all of a sudden, everything changed and I was brought to Oman. “When we got to Oman, two people came to pick us. They seized our passports and our phones. They took us to where we would work.” Speaking in Yoruba, Adetomisin further stated, “For the first four months that I worked there, my boss didn’t pay my salary. He didn’t give me any money. “When I called my agent, he said he had played his part and none of that was his problem anymore and he has stopped picking my calls ever since.” When contacted on Sunday, the spokesman, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Ferdinand Nwonye, said the case had not been brought to his attention, adding that he would find out on Monday (today). Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com