Dark eyelids have a variety of causes and there are a number of people who believe that they make them appear tired or stressed up. Some others believe that such an appearance indicates that they are under some kind of emotional pressure that reinforces their sense of diminished self-esteem. In the extreme, dark eyelids may even affect a person’s wellbeing. To begin with, this appearance is not a dangerous symptom. However, there are many causes of the eyelids being dark, appearing almost like rings of dark paint around the eyes. And depending on what the causes might be in each individual, it is possible and often helpful, for an attending doctor to be able to offer some treatment or give advice where a particular person is at risk for having the problem. This is of particular concern in people who may have a genetic inclination for having this condition as we shall see later in this essay. One of the most common causes of the abnormal appearance of having dark eyelids are environmental factors, which in this era of a thinning ozone layer, allows for more exposure to ultraviolet radiation such that the eyelids appear unusually darker. In a certain measure of relationship to this, a habit of poor sleep, the misuse of alcohol through excessive intake, excessive smoking and general exposure to stress all contribute in little ways to make the eyelids dark. Sometimes, the factors act alone on each personality and at other times, they work in tandem to various degrees and produce their unique appearance. Some such people have a condition in which there is melanin within the skin rather than on it. That condition is known as dermal melanocytosis and it is usually caused by exposure to sunlight, chronic eczema and hormonal changes in pregnancy. Another common factor is swelling around the eyes which can be caused either by local factors at play around the head and neck area or systemic conditions from other regions of the body. Among the local factors are injuries sustained around the face from accidents, falls and fighting. These may be associated with direct impact injuries to the area around the eye socket as well as indirect injuries to that region of the head that may cause swelling to spread around the area. Blows to the head are particularly notorious for this causal effect and is a common feature of domestic trauma from marital disharmony, fighting and other in-house violence. Slaps delivered to the face therefore, would cause swelling in the skin around that part of the face with extension into the eyelids. Such swelling would be the result of the local skin getting oedematous from the trauma and some bleeding into the skin. The systemic factors refer to the effects of diseases originating from elsewhere in the body. Top on the list of such disease conditions are chronic kidney disease and chronic liver disease. Patients who have either of those debilitating conditions will often show some level of puffiness of the face which could include the darkening of the eyelids. One look at such a person is often enough to tell you that they are not well. This appearance is also seen among people who suffer from chronic heart failure and some diseases of the blood. Among people who are terminally ill from cancer and HIV/AIDS, such an appearance can become evident as the patient increasingly becomes sick, develops weight loss and suffers both physical and emotional stress. There are certain drugs that can cause this problem and it is something to warn patients about as they embark on the use of such prescription medicines. One of such drugs falls in the class of prostaglandins which are used in the treatment of glaucoma. One such medication, called Xalatan with the pharmacological name of Latanoprost, would cause dark eyelids to appear within three to six months of usage. It has been observed by many doctors that when such usage of a similar drug, Lumigan is discontinued, the darkening acquired can fade away after stopping its use. This is a reminder to such persons using either of those medications not to panic or stop their use by themselves but to consult their doctors for clarification. As people age, the skin loses elasticity and gets thinner. That happens a lot around the eyelids. Besides, the presence of tiny blood vessels around them may give it a darker appearance. This particular change is more closely observed among women of colour who bleach with the result that their skin loses some of its cell layers and it acquires an unusually thin appearance such that even the blood vessels within the skin become visible. In the skin around the eyes, this becomes dark and the eyelids appear darker than usual. Such an increase in the number of blood vessels also appears during menstruation and in pregnancy. This can be confirmed by a doctor who can manually stretch the skin so that if an increase in the number of blood vessels is the cause, the colour of the skin will not fade when it is stretched. The above phenomenon does not occur just by the sudden production of new blood vessels. In reality, the vessels which appear in this situation are previously collapsed because they are not needed during periods of rest. This happens throughout the body. When there is an inflammatory response as a result of an injury or exercise and more oxygen is needed by the tissues, such previously collapsed vessels open up to accommodate the increased requirement. That sequence of events is responsible for the appearance of the new blood vessels mentioned above. In pregnancy, therefore as in menstruation, there arises such a need so that more vessels open up and the eyelids take on a darker hue. Specifically, the vessels involved become engorged with blood rather than have an increase in number. Chronic eczema as well as inflammation of the eyes resulting from an allergy can cause increased pigmentation of the eyelids and lead to their darkening. Such increased pigmentation can result from increased scratching in response to the itching. Allergic conjunctivitis is a condition that can cause this to happen when the frequent rubbing of the eyes in reaction to the inflammatory condition causes the blood vessels in that region to engorge with blood and become tortuous thereby bringing more colour to the area. In some instances, researchers have suggested that there is a genetic basis for this development. It is common in some families even if not every member of the family is affected. In some cases, the distribution of the increased coloration varies greatly even amongst members of the same family. Some note that there are people who have developed dark eyelids from childhood and had them grow darker with increasing age. Other people have noted that their darkened eyelids worsened when they were under stress but had the colour reducing as they got some rest and relaxed. In the same way, people who were in good health, even though from such families, tended to have less darkening of their eyelids. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   