The mere discovery of a utero-vaginal prolapse is usually one to cause consternation in many women as well as their spouses. This is a condition which occurs when the muscles which are responsible for maintaining the integrity of the reproductive organs in a female become progressively weaker over time such that they are no longer able to keep the organs in position. These organs are the uterus, the vagina, the fallopian tubes, the ovaries and the labia. This is a problem which can occur in women at any age. However, advancing age and the loss of oestrogen during the menopause can further cause those muscles to weaken so much so that the reproductive organs mentioned above can actually droop down into the vagina. Other possible causes are repeated pregnancy and delivery such that the muscles are constantly made to bear weight at the time in which the various pregnancies are developing. The deliveries may be normal or complicated vaginal delivery. This is a major reason why in many parts of Nigeria, relatively young women are diagnosed with this condition. This is seen a lot in places where young women have at the age of 25 years, had up to five children. The net effect is that those muscles which look like a sling in the living person begin to appear like a clothes line bearing the full burden of washed clothes. They sag and the organs literally fall into the vagina which is the lowest position for the female reproductive organs when they sit or stand. Another possible cause of a weight related reason for the uterus to prolapse is when there is a huge tumour in the pelvis such as a fibroid or a major operation has been performed. Another common cause of this problem is the presence of any condition in a woman that would cause her to cough constantly with the result that the repeated straining to bring up the sputum and clear the airway eventually lead to the development of the utero-vaginal prolapse. This is often seen in chronic lung disease conditions such as tuberculosis, bronchiectasis and lung abscess. Chronic bronchitis and asthma can similarly result in this condition. Pelvic muscles are involved in helping the other muscles of the anterior wall of the tummy to complete the cough reflex. The frequency of that effort takes a toll on the strength and integrity of those muscles and they become progressively lax with the passage of time. When a uterus has prolapsed into the vagina, there is initially a feeling of a weight in the pelvis. It may resemble sitting on a lawn tennis ball and there can therefore be associated low back pain. This is a condition that begins gradually and also progressively gets worse with the passage of time. And as time progresses, the muscles weaken further until they become so lax that the uterus descends into the vagina. At this stage, patients feel that a lump is coming out of the vagina and there may be associated difficulty with walking. Constipation could also then become a problem as people gradually deteriorate from passing stools once a day to doing so every three or four days. Sometimes, it is even farther in between stools. And, as it is for the stools, so it is also for the urine. Frequently, the bladder never gets to be completely empty of urine when patients void so that the bladder is soon full enough again to return to the urinal. Socially, this soon becomes untenable especially with the need to pass urine every hour or so. Sleeping is restless in these circumstances and not long enough to make the patients happy and productive. In addition, intercourse becomes painful and something of an ordeal. Many women who have this condition complain about this aspect and their husbands are equally displeased. On the whole, the advent of this condition which can seem like there is a growth arising from the vault of the vagina is something to take away a woman’s peace. In quite a number of instances, some women are bold enough to examine themselves with a morrow between spread legs to see what is wrong. Such is the concern that they then seek a doctor’s examination. The muscle weakness is what allows the uterus to sag. Sometimes, the organ may come completely out of the body through the vagina. Accordingly, the various proportions by which this condition is seen have led to its classification into four separate groups:  There are other conditions which may become associated with uterine prolapse. These are variously named as follows;  The diagnosis of this condition is straight forward and the attending doctor may examine you in both the lying position and when standing in order to elicit some of the other features we have discussed above. Certain tests usually need to be done in order to determine whether there are associated complications. Ultrasound scans and special kinds of X-rays are often taken in addition to make sure that there are no associated involvements especially of the urinary system. In the end, however, the type of treatment a person gets to have is dependent on their age. An operation of some sort to repair the uterus or remove it altogether is the most consistent approach to solving this problem. These are particularly useful for the third and fourth degree types of prolapse. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   