Dayo Ojerinde The Chief Medical Director, Encee Medical Center, Lagos, Dr Nenoi Umeh, has stressed the need for companies to protect their workforce amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Umeh, in a statement to mark the 2020 World Day for Safety and Health at Work urged the private and public employers of labour to create a safe and healthy working environment for its workforce. She said, “World Day for Safety and Health at Work aims to create worldwide awareness of the dimensions and consequences of work-related accidents, injuries, and diseases, ensure the good health and safety of all workers and to stimulate and support practical actions at all levels. “The ongoing coronavirus pandemic has threatened the safety of workers thereby creating many precarious employment situations such as employers imposing new workplace restrictions by making employees work from home to socially isolate as much as possible and limit the number of people they interact with in order to keep friends and families safe. Regardless, it is important to maintain healthy standards when working at home to ensure work-related injuries are avoided. “Working from home or telecommuting due to the COVID-19 virus spread should not mean losing one’s guard in terms of safety because accidents can happen at home also. Employees working from home can help contain the spread of COVID-19 and other diseases by taking safety precautions. From understanding the hazards in your house to making changes to lower the risks in order to keep you and your family safe while working from home.” Umeh added that the health and safety of everyone was important in order to reduce the spread of the virus. According to the International Labour Organisation, an average of 6,000 people die as a result of work-related accidents or diseases, daily, totaling more than 2.2 million work-related deaths a year globally. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com