Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja Lottery operators have called on the Federal Government to provide them with financial bailout due to the crushing effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on their businesses. The operators made the request during a virtual meeting with the management of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission on Wednesday, according to a statement by its Assistant Director, Public Affairs, Magnus Ekechukwu. They said due to the physical distancing guidelines as well as the movement restrictions arising from the lockdown, access to their Point of Sales terminals was restricted; a situation which has left most of their operations grounded. The operators unanimously expressed their resolve to migrate fully to online operations as a means of tackling the effects of physical distancing on their POS terminals. The operators also urged the NLRC management to find lasting solution to the challenges of constant rivalry between states and federal regulators. The statement read in part, “The operators asked for special concessions by government such as remittance waivers, subscription waivers as well as a generous financial bailout; in order to revive the industry and make it viable again. “They strongly urged the NLRC management to find lasting solution to the challenges of constant rivalry between states and federal regulators.” The Director-General of the NLRC, Lanre Gbajabiamila, charged lottery operators to brace up to the challenges of the COVID-19 era and get more innovative in their operations. “The commission is aware of the impact of Covid-19 on businesses across the world. We thought it was important to identify other creative ways of getting together, while adhering to the social/physical distancing protocols of this pandemic era. “We want to hear first-hand, some of the challenges you are facing, so as to have a better understanding of how best to chart new directions,” he said. The NLRC boss assured the operators that their challenges as well as requests would be properly attended to and presented to the Federal Government for necessary action.