Nike Popoola Sunu Assurance Plc and Sunu Health Nigeria Limited have donated N15m worth of personal protective equipment to the Lagos State Government to help protect the front-line health workers against coronavirus. A statement said the parent company, Sunu Group, one of the pan-African groups of insurance firms had donated N300m worth of the PPE across Africa as part of its support to governments. While donating the equipment to the Lagos State Government at its medical warehouse in Lekki Lagos, Sunu stated that it decided to provide the PPE to protect the front-line workers who were the ones taking care of the people that tested positive for the virus. It stated, “All over the world, we hear doctors and healthcare workers being infected by the virus. We need our doctors to be hale and hearty in order to deliver care to the people. We have personal protective equipment’s worth about N15m that we are giving out to protect our front-line workers.” It also said, “This is Sunu Group’s contribution to fight the pandemic all across Africa. Sunu is in 14 African countries primarily west African countries, both the French speaking and the English speaking west African countries. “In each and every country there has been similar donations being made of PPE for the front line workers that are tackling this pandemic.” The statement quoted the Managing Director, Sunu Assurance, Mr Samuel Ogbodu, as saying, “Since coronavirus is ravaging the whole of Africa, the group decided to contribute its own quota in the fight towards the elimination of COVID-19 in the various countries where we are present. We are present in 14 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. “Aside from this, Sunu Assurance here in Nigeria also contributed to the insurance industry’s N11bn insurance cover for 5,000 front-line health workers under the Nigeria Centre for Disease and Control. We will also be supporting the underprivileged people. We also pray for the front-line workers.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 