Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has announced the temporary lifting of the total lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas for two days with effect from Tuesday, May 12, 2020. Wike, who made the announcement in a state-wide broadcast on Sunday night, said that the lockdown would be reinstated on Thursday, 14th May 2020. He said, “We have given due consideration to the propositions on the way forward by well-meaning citizens of the state, and after a cautious review of the situation, decided to implement a partial relaxation of the lockdown measures, to enable residents to have some fresh air and replenish their foodstuffs and medicines. “To this end, I hereby announce the temporary lifting of the total lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Governments Areas for two days only, with effect from Tuesday 12th May 2020. READ ALSO: Bakare donates two church buildings as isolation centres “All shops, supermarkets, and malls can open to the public for Tuesday and Wednesday, 12 and 13 May 2020. Similarly, all hospitals and banks can also open and provide full services to the public. “While oil and gas companies are required to submit the list of their staff on essential duties to the government, note that there is no ban on the lifting of petroleum products from depots and other receptacles. “The total lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt Local Government Areas will be reinstated on Thursday 14th May 2020 and remain until further notice.” The governor said all other established restrictions under the Executive Orders on social distancing are still in force. He said, “Compulsory wearing of face mask in vehicles and public places, closure of all land, sea and air borders and entry routes into the state; and closure of all open markets, including slaughters, hotels, guest houses, cinemas, bars, and restaurants, etc. “Please note that our enemy is invisible. stay at home, maintain social distancing, wash your hands regularly, and stay safe.”