Sola Shittu The Edo State Police Command on Saturday said a police inspector, Felix Egbon, was killed on Friday by hoodlums in Auchi while enforcing the dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed by the Federal Government to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. It was learnt that a police patrol team, which Egbon was part of, had approached some shop owners who were still open after 8pm and asked them to close their shops in obedience to the Federal Government’s directive. In a statement, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Chidi Nwabuzor said Egbon and his colleagues from the Auchi Divisional Police Headquarters were attacked with guns and other dangerous weapons by the hoodlums who ambushed them at Iyetse Quarters, Auchi. Nwabuzor stated that Egbon later died at the Auchi General Hospital where he was rushed to for medical attention. The statement said, “The Edo State police command wishes to inform the general public of the attack on the operatives of Auchi Divisional Police Headquarters, Auchi, Edo State and the gruesome murder of a police inspector Felix Egbon during the process. “On Friday, May 8 at about 9pm, Inspector Felix Egbon and his team were attacked with guns and other dangerous weapons by hoodlums who emerged from the bush at Iyetse Quarters, Auchi, while enforcing the COVID-19 curfew imposed by the Federal Government of Nigeria from 8pm to 6am. In the process, Inspector Felix Egbon was shot in the neck. He was immediately rushed to the General Hospital, Auchi where he gave up the ghost.” Consequently, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Lawan Jimeta, has ordered an investigation into the policeman’s murder. He sought the assistance of other security agencies, including vigilantes and hunters in the area, to arrest the perpetrators. Jimeta also appealed to the traditional rulers, village heads and youth leaders to assist in providing information that might lead to the arrest of those responsible for the murder. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   