Dele Ogunyemi, Warri Ijaw political leaders in Delta State have been advised to galvanise the necessary support from the various interest groups across the state if they are to produce a governor of Ijaw extraction in 2023. A community leader, Mackson Ode, made the call in a statement made available to journalists in Warri, on Monday. Ode said, “The Ijaws deserve the office of the governor come 2023. “We cannot continue to be on the sidelines waiting to be served remnants or be at the mercy of certain cartels or political overlords who give what they like to others after satisfying themselves or at certain slavish conditions to be fulfilled now or later.” He expressed concern that the Ijaw ethnic nationality had been relegated to the background in the scheme of things in Delta State. Ode said, “Since the creation of Delta State in 1991, there have been four executive/elected governors (two from the Urhobo extraction, one from the Itsekiri and the current one from the Anioma). The Ijaws occupy about six local government areas out of twenty-five in the state. The Ijaws contribute the most in terms of resources of the natural resources from the Niger Delta even though haters of the Ijaws have manipulatively placed the contribution of the Ijaws at 27 per cent behind the Itsekiri’s with 29 per cent. “I sincerely think that, in all of these, the Ijaws deserve the office of the governor come 2023. “The year 2023 is very crucial politically. Whatever makes the Ijaws miss out of the governorship office and allows it go to the Urhobos for the third time, they (the Urhobos) would have successfully established their political and social superiority over the other ethnic nationalities and would therefore foist the next governor after eight years (2031) on the state. Sadly then, it might go to another ethnic group in the state.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 