Sola Shittu, Benin Edo State Government on Wednesday ordered the return of 108 travellers from the North intercepted at Irrua on Benin-Auchi road and Benin City by the state police command. Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, who confirmed the incident, said three of the travellers tested positive for COVID-19. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Chidi Nwabuzor, also confirmed the interception of the 84 others at Irrua by the police, adding that the state government had ordered that they be escorted out of the state to the south-West where they said they were going to. “Yes it is true a trailer load of human beings from Kaduna coming straight to Edo State were intercepted at Benin-Auchi expressway around Irrua. The operatives intercepted the vehicle and took them to Irrua Police Station. When they were counted, there were 84 human beings including the driver and when they were interrogated they said they were coming from the North, Kaduna State to be precise. They were taken to Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital for proper medical check and that has been done. The state government order is that security agents should escort them away to where they said they were going to, and that is the West, either Ogun State or Lagos. “… So right now they are escorting them away from Edo state because they were going to the West. That is their defense now our duty now is to escort them away from Edo State,” said Nwabuzor. Addressing journalists in Benin City, the state capital, the Commissioner for Health, Dr Patrick Okundia, said 26 travellers in a truck were stopped at AGIP Junction along Sapele Road and moved to the Stella Obasanjo Hospital for screening and testing to ascertain their COVID-19 status before they were let off to continue their journey. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   