John Alechenu, Abuja The South-South Zone of the All Progressives Congress has demanded the postponement of the Cross-River State Local Government Council elections scheduled to hold on Saturday. In an open letter signed by the APC National Vice-Chairman (South South), Hilliard Eta, the party expressed shock that the Prof. Ben Ayade-led Peoples Democratic Party administration was planning to proceed with the poll in spite of the COVID-19 induced nationwide lockdown. The letter which was addressed to the governor, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent, in Abuja, on Thursday, said unless the state government postponed the election, it would be forced to seek a legal redress. Eta said, “We had long prepared for this election, but the governor kept influencing the postponement of the elections” only to “fix an election of this critical nature, without giving time for adequate preparations by our candidates.” The letter read in part, “Fixing this election at this time when most participants are locked-down outside Cross River State negates the spirit of fairness, equity and justice. “What manner of elections are we expecting when you know that for the past two months, most of our candidates and supporters were not involved in any form of campaigns and mobilization?” The APC also said it was clear that neither the state government nor the PDP was ready for a free and fair contest because what it was planning to do was to “ambush” other political parties to prepare grounds to legitimize an illegal act. The party therefore, “call on you to cancel the plans of holding this election as announced, for the sake of posterity and our dear state. Please be informed that where you turn deaf ears to this call for the voice of reason, we will have no choice but to use all legitimate and available instruments to seek for justice.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 