Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Peoples Democratic Party has denied entering into a deal to hand the party’s governorship ticket to the state deputy governor, Mr. Agboola Ajayi. There has been no love lost between Agboola and his principal, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Speculations have been rife about Ajayi moving into the PDP. In a statement issued in Akure on Tuesday, PDP’s   Director of Publicity, Mr. Zadok Akintoye, the party announced that it had no deal with Ajayi on the governorship election. According to him, the party has no anointed candidate for the election. He also said there would be a level playing ground for all the aspirants of the party in a bid to present a credible and acceptable candidate for the election. Akintoye said, “The leadership of the PDP in Ondo State wishes to inform the general public and all members of the party that the alleged ‘deal’ supposedly struck by the incumbent deputy governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi, is false and non-existent. READ ALSO: I can’t step down for Ondo gov, says Kekemeke “We would like to assure all our aspirants and their supporters that the party does not have a preferred candidate and will ensure level playing field to all aspirants or intending aspirants.” He noted that the state Caretaker Chairman of the party, Clement Faboyede, had declared that no aspirant would be shut out of the process of picking a candidate as the party had concluded plans to “guaranty free, fair, transparent and all-inclusive primaries as is the established custom of our party.” He further said, “The PDP remains absolutely committed to the principles and ethos of democracy and all intending members are expected to fully register at their wards and also participate in all party activities.” He, however, said Ajayi or any other member of the public was welcomed to join the PDP is they so desired. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com