Peter Dada, Akure Ahead the forthcoming governorship election in Ondo State, an aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Mr Isaac Kekemeke, on Tuesday declared that he was ready to contest the primary and become the standard bearer of the ruling party for the election, coming up in October. Kekemeke, the immediate former chairman of the party, who expressed assurance that the APC would retain power in the state, said his vision, when he became the governor of the state was to create employment for the people of the state and develop science and technology. He stated this while speaking with our correspondent, in Akure, the state capital. He said, “My vision clearly is the creation of a prosperous and peaceful Ondo State where citizens would be productively engaged to enable them to live meaningful, comfortable and decent lives. The mission is to, with the aid of information, science and technology, maximally impact government resources on the human capital and abundant natural resources of the state to create wealth. “We intend to make government seeable, touchable and feel-able. And our objective in government is to fight five wars, using the entire governmental power to fight war against hunger, poverty, unemployment, insecurity and to rescue our decaying basic infrastructure. “We have goals that we call the ‘Lekeleke Development Goals’, economic and social goals; all of these geared towards creating a conducive environment for individuals to thrive and live well.” On the deadly coronavirus disease that is ravaging the country, the former Secretary to the State Government, advised the government to adopt indigenous herbal medicine for the disease. He advised the government to begin to look into how to empower the people rather than sharing food items to them as palliative, noting that only contractors were being empowered more through provision of relief items to the people. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.co