Friday Olokor, Abuja The Christian Association of Nigeria has protested against the proposed bill on Infectious Disease Control in Nigeria by the House of Representatives, warning that it should not be passed into law in national interest. CAN’s protest was contained in a letter by its General Secretary, Joseph Daramola, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. It was dated May 4, 2020, and obtained by The PUNCH on Tuesday. The letter read, “We urge the House to discontinue discussion on this Bill forthwith in the overall interest of the Nigerian citizens. However, should you insist that there is merit in this unacceptable bill, we insist that this bill should pass through public hearing.” CAN reminded the legislators that courts on numerous occasions struck out Acts of Parliaments and legislations including Executive Orders of Governments, which do violence to any of the Fundamental Human Rights provided for in the Constitution. The organisation also queried the intention behind the bill, which seeks to prohibit and control infectious diseases, “to be passed by the House of Representatives into law with jet speed.” READ ALSO: Gbajabiamila bars Reps with COVID-19 contact, defends NCDC Bill Daramola said, “CAN hereby advise the leadership and honourable members of the House of Representatives to immediately allow the spirit of God to prevail over the primordial intentions and ambition, not to pass this controversial, nebulous and obnoxious bill into law in the overall interest of Nigerians. “This bill is not what is currently being expected from the House of Representatives, but rather, the development of the vaccines that will stop this COVID -19 pandemic from further killing of our citizens.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com