With the untold hardship currently faced by Nigerians due to the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the Nigerian economy and the fact that many economies of the world have taken a bearish turn and income adversely affected, leading Pay TV company, StarTimes Nigeria, has reiterate its commitment to give value to its teeming customers by providing quality entertainment to every Nigerian home at the most affordable price. While it is obvious that the major source of entertainment for Nigerians is football activities, the absence and suspension of Europa League, EPL, Champions League, and LaLiga made the TV screen uninteresting to Nigerians. The sign of relief and excitement pop up last week on the 16th of May 2020 when Nigerians took to their social media to celebrate the resumption of the Bundesliga League as the major league in action across Europe broadcasting live and exclusively on StarTimes. This is good news to many soccer loving customers who will not miss out of the resumed games on StarTimes. It is therefore expected that viewers need to enjoy the best content around news, movies, documentaries and educational shows for their children and wards at a very affordable price without paying so much money at this trying times. One of the core values of StarTimes is to put customer first and as a way of cushioning the effect of the hardship on customers, StarTimes has maintained its decoder and subscription fees at the lowest price when prices of service fees has increased generally. It is quite insensitive to expect Nigerians to cough out additional fees to enjoy digital entertainment when the average Nigerians who live below 1 dollar per day struggle to provide 1 square meal for their families on a daily basis. The number 1 Pay TV company for the masses, StarTimes has decided to extend its DTH-decoder price reduction which commenced in January 2020, from N12,900 to N8,900 with 1 Month free super Bouquet including dish and accessories. StarTimes is also offering free-to-view channels to ensure its subscribers get-up-to-date information on COVID-19. The free-to-view channels are: NTA, Channels, Silverbird and AIT. In addition, StarTimes is also offering its customers more than 100 local and international channels on its mobile streaming platform, StarTimes ON to spice up the viewing pleasures of its Muslim subscribers during this period of fasting. StarTimes also introduced Ibadah TV Channel 451 on DTT and 369 on DTH for the best Islamic programmes on its platforms. With the gradual easing of the lockdown in Nigeria and as many are eager to return to their daily sources of livelihood, StarTimes is here to accompany them with non-stop entertainments through it’s very affordable services. While seeking an avenue to ensure that customers continue to enjoy non stop entertainment programmes, StarTimes maintains its other tasteful programmes on the platform entertaining both the old and young during this special period with the recently launched TV programmes like; Human Rights TV on DTT 126 and DTH 537 and Dunamis TV on DTT 453 and DTH 363 for the best ‘church at home’ experience with praise and worship sessions, and sermons.  In a bid to further deliver unmatched entertainment for kids, StarTimes has promised to unveil new TV programmes that includes; Toomani on DTT 355 and DTH 306 and Cheebies for additional fun. Telenovela lovers are not left out of the exciting adventures with the debut of New Telenovela series on TL Novelas DTH 139 on the 25th of May 2020. Although schools are currently closed, study is never suspended and StarTimes have a whole lot of fantastic content lined up to enjoy their summer break with family. Provision have been made for educational TV programme for ST school Junior from year 1-9 and it will go live on DTT 364, while ST School Senior for year 10-12 will be aired on DTT 365 and on Sky News DTT 303, and DTH 258. This new educational programme brings relief to parents whose major headache has been the fear of the educational standard of their wards dropping, and the kids getting carried away with too many unnecessary activities. According to Mr. Tunde Aina, COO, StarTimes Nigeria, “We will do our part.  The economic situation is hard and we will not increase our decoder price and subscription in this period as our mission is for everyone to enjoy quality entertainment at affordable prices, especially in this trying time.”