ABIODUN NEJO Two parallel Peoples Democratic Party executive committees have emerged at the ward level in Ekiti State as the division between former Governor Ayodele Fayose and Senator Biodun Olujimi rages. While the Fayose group inaugurated its ward excos on Thursday, saying it had begun a four-year tenure, the Olujimi group, which said the Thursday inauguration was non-existent, swore in members of its ward exco on Friday. The Fayose group had claimed that the PDP national body endorsed the inauguration of the new ward exco, but the Olujimi faction averred that the tenure of the former occupants expired by 11.59pm on Thursday, hence the swearing-in of their successors which it said could not have been done earlier than Friday. Fayose’s media aide, Lere Olayinka, had said, “Members of the exco of the PDP in 155 out of the 177 wards in Ekiti State have assumed office for a tenure of four years,  after they were sworn in on Thursday morning, in accordance with the party’s constitution.” “The ward exco members were sworn in by a Notary Public,  Barr. Niyi Idowu,  in accordance with the provisions of section 65 of the PDP Constitution, as amended in 2017,” he noted. But the Chairman, Ekiti PDP Repositioning Movement, Alaba Agboola, who noted that Idowu was not a PDP member, said, “We stand solidly by the position of the PDP State Executive Committee as expressed by its Chairman, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, to the effect that the purported inauguration has no basis in law and in fact, should be disregarded.” Agboola said the authentic PDP ward exco officials were inaugurated on Friday and had since begun to function. He said, “The true position of events in Ekiti State is that only the ward executives elected on 7th March, 2020, conducted by the PDP and monitored by the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agencies in line with the 1999 Constitution and sections 85 and 86 of the Electoral Act remain authentic and have assumed work as from 1st May 2020.” “The authentic list of the PDP ward executives in Ekiti State shall be published in due course,” Agboola added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   