Friday Olokor The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has said producing a governor from the southern part of the state has been a near impossible task because they have been “criminally shortchanged” through polling units and electoral constituencies. National President of SUKAPU, Jonathan Asake, said this in an interview with Sunday PUNCH, in Abuja. He said, despite having 12 out of the 23 local government areas, political power had continued to elude them not because they do not have the population or capacity but that the electoral structures have been skewed against them. According to him, such a predicament had also affected other ethnic nationalities in Bauchi, Gombe, Southern Yobe, Kebbi, Borno and Adamawa. The former member of the House of Representatives said in developed democracies, getting to occupy top political offices like that of President or governor were oftentimes a matter of individual or group’s ambition and hard work. Asake said, “In most parts of Africa, however, particularly in Nigeria, it’s a different ball game. To be a governor, president or to occupy any other influential political office in Nigeria, two key factors are involved. First, the godfather factor and secondly, financial war chest. When these two factors are on ground, then you need a favourable structure.’’ “In the case of Southern Kaduna, electoral structures are grossly skewed against us and making it difficult, if not impossible, to produce a governor. This is what I mean; in 1987, when the old Kaduna state was divided into Katsina and Kaduna, Katsina had seven LGAs and Kaduna had seven LGAs. Katsina as at today has 34 LGAs, while Kaduna has only 23. “The reason for this gross imbalance is that more LGAs were created in the Northern part of Kaduna state, and fewer in the Southern part in spite of higher population and larger landmass. In terms of polling units and electoral constituencies, the Southern part of Kaduna state has been criminally shortchanged. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 