’Femi Asu Axxela Limited, a gas and power portfolio company, says it has achieved five million man-hours without any lost-time injury across its operations. The LTI is a measure of injury sustained on the job that is capable of preventing a worker from performing or continuing with a task or resulting in downtime in operations, according to a statement. “It is an oil and gas industry benchmark that evaluates adherence to safety and environmental requirements in the course of operations, and is a critical key performance indicator for Axxela’s conformity with the industry’s best practices,” the firm said. Axxela’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr Bolaji Osunsanya, said the safety mark underscored the firm’s commitment to health and safety best practices across all facets of its enterprise. He said, “We are proud to celebrate Axxela’s advances in safety performance. Our integrated environment, health, safety and quality management strategy revolves around operational excellence, stringent safety processes, high standards, strict compliance, comprehensive training, capability building, and vigilant monitoring. “Building on our four million LTI-free man-hour record achieved in 2018, we are excited about this new accomplishment, and are already working towards the next ground-breaking milestone. “Safety is firmly entrenched in every aspect of our business and I must commend our managerial and operational teams, along with our partners and contractors for their relentless efforts in upholding our robust safety guidelines.” The firm’s EHSQ Manager, Uche Okpala, attributed the feat to the dedication of employees and contractors to ensuring an incident-free work environment. He said, “This new safety record is indicative of company-wide adherence to our Occupational Health and Safety standards in line with ISO 45001:2018. “While we are elated, our vision remains zero accidents to our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers and host communities, and continued collaboration with our stakeholders to maintain a safe environment for all.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    