‘Tana Aiyejina The implementation of the Stephen Oronsaye Report would guarantee the total independence and autonomy of the Nigeria Football Federation and free the football governing body from undue interference by government, football stakeholders have said. The report, which is meant to restructure and rationalise government commissions and agencies, recommended that the FG stopped funding the NFF. It added that the law enabling the Nigeria Football Association be amended to reflect the directive of FIFA that the organisation be renamed a ‘federation.’ “This will stop further debate on the current controversial status of the organisation and that government stops further funding of the NFA/NFF in accordance with FIFA’s Statutes,” the report stated. But football stakeholders believe that the latest move will release the country’s football body from the clutches  of the FG, who have been severally criticised for interfering in football matters, which at some point almost led to the country’s ban by world governing body FIFA. They stated that the present NFF board should be able to run football without funding from government, based on their achievements in the past. In 2018, the NFF was 65 per cent self-funding, and the stakeholders believe with an enabling environment between then and now, the NFF should be self-funding. “It’s a good report from Orosanye, but provided the government provides the enabling environment for our football to thrive,” former Super Falcons coach, Godwin Izilein, said. ‘’If the President implements the Oronsaye Report, it will make our football more profitable, enjoy freedom (from government), promote creativity and draw more investors into the game as they feel better doing business with a body that is not tied to the apron strings of the government.’’ Also, 1984 Africa Cup of Nations finalist, Paul Okoku, said, ‘’Football would be better run in an atmosphere without interference but the NFF has to show greater transparency and accountability as it seeks private sector funding because the companies bringing money will demand accountability.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   