Rasheed Bisiriyu Road transporters under the aegis of Association of Private Transport Companies of Nigeria have protested their reported exclusion from the economic stimulus programme being packaged by the Federal Government to cushion the effects of the coronavirus lockdown on the economy. Spokesman for the association of Private Transport Companies of Nigeria, Mr Audu Gaddo, who registered the protest on behalf of the group, said they were losing about N50bn monthly. He alleged of a plan to scheme out road transport operators from the proposed economic stimulus arrangement for the transport sector. He claimed in a statement that some senior government officials were deliberately promoting the interest of only one arm of transportation, leaving other transport operators in the country to groan under the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Gaddo spoke against the backdrop of a report from the Federal Ministry of Finance that the Buhari-led administration had concluded plans to effect a special stimulus package for the aviation industry. He said, “We have noted with total displeasure government’s dangerous plans to bail out the aviation sector without any consideration for the road transport sector that contributes more to the GDP and employs a greater number of Nigerians. “The thought is devious, to say the least. Our sector is the one experiencing the worst distress with losses estimated at over N50bn monthly. Indeed, our members are gearing up for some of the worst job losses Nigeria’s economy will ever know,” he said. Addressing a web conference on last Monday, the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, had reportedly said, “Like you know, a lot of planes are parked and this is causing almost N21bn (loss) on a monthly basis. We are looking at how to provide some form of bailout support to ensure that the industry doesn’t die.” But reacting to this, Gaddo said, among others,that the minister’s utterance showed a very poor understanding of the road transporters were going through, adding that this portended a great danger for the country. He added, “With APTCON members remaining law-abiding as the nationwide lockdown lasts, revenue projections have fallen to zero while some unstructured operators are daily bribing their way through government barricades to sabotage the COVID-19 protocols.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 