Tony Okafor, Awka No fewer than 300 farmers were reportedly injured in a clash between Umumbo and Omor communities in the Ayamelu Local Government Area of Anambra State. One person was also said to have been killed while properties worth millions of naira were destroyed following the clash. It was not clear what prompted the recent conflict, our correspondent recalled that the two communities had over the years been involved in land disputes that had claimed several lives and property. A source in the area who pleaded not to be named told our correspondent that 300 farmers were injured in the clash while 50 persons are still missing. The Anambra State government while confirming the incident on Thursday in a statement by the Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, C-Don Adinuba, vowed to deal decisively with those who masterminded the conflict. Adinuba said security operatives had been directed to bring those involved in the clash to justice. The statement read in part, “The Anambra State government notes with profound sadness the conflict between the people of Umumbo and their neighbours in Omor community over land ownership which has in the last two days resulted in one confirmed fatality and the destruction of valuable assets in both places. “Security agents drawn from the Nigeria Police Force, the Nigerian Army and the National Security and Civil Defence Corps have been drafted to the scene to stabilize the situation and maintain law and order, just as a curfew has been imposed in the two communities from 6pm to 6am. “This conflict is a negation of the strenuous effort the government and people of Anambra State have been making in the past six years to make Anambra, not only the safest and most secure state in the federation but also the most socially harmonious. “Given that the state government considers the safety of the life and property of every Anambra person an article of faith, those responsible for the violence between the Omor and Umumbo communities will be made to feel the full weight of the law accordingly.”