Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi The number of health workers who have tested positive for COVID-19 in Bauchi State since March 24when the index case was recorded has risen to 15, The PUNCH reports. The Commissioner for Health in Bauchi State, Dr Aliyu Maigoro, disclosed this at a press conference at the Government House on Sunday evening. The PUNCH had reported that the Executive Chairman of the Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Rilwan Mohammed, while giving a brief at the State COVID-19 Press Conference at the Government House last Wednesday said 10 health care workers tested positive for the virus in the state. He said, “Ten medical personnels made up of four doctors, six health workers including some nurses. Some of them are in Bauchi while some are in Azare but we have a higher number of them in the Azare zone.” Mohammed who is the Chairman of the Surveillance and Contact Tracing sub-committee of the State Task Force on COVID-19 and Lassa Fever, said that six private hospitals had also been affected. Maigoro said with two new confirmation of health workers in the state, the total number of positive cases among health workers had risen to 15. He disclosed that one more almajirai has also tested positive bringing the total number of positive almajirai to 8 out of 38 repatriated from Kano State. He said, “From the 44 positive results that we got yesterday (Saturday), there are two additional health workers (in Azare) and then here in Bauchi, we have one more. So, a total number of 15 health workers as at today. “Regarding almajirai issue, I want to assure you that we have additional one case from Kano. So out of the 38 almajirai from Kano, eight  have tested positive for COVID-19 and they have been isolated and are receiving treatment currently.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com