Mudiaga Affe A former Commissioner for Information in Ogun State, Chief Fassy Yusuf, says age has not slowed down the developmental strides of the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona. Oba Adetona, who clocks 86 on Sunday (today), would have hosted the fourth annual lecture series of the Professorial Chair on Governance endowed at the Olabisi Onabanjo University in Ago-Iwoye if not for the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement to Sunday PUNCH, Yusuf said the octogenarian monarch, who recently clocked 60 years on the throne, is a man of destiny and a leader imbued with uncommon capacity for excellence and service. He explained that the poverty alleviation programme embraced by the monarch for the economic and development benefits of his people had grown to N3bn from its initial N500,000. Yusuf said, “But for the coronavirus pandemic currently ravaging the entire universe, the fourth annual lecture series of the Professorial Chair on Governance endowed by the inimitable monarch of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Kayode Adetona would have held on Sunday (today) to coincide with his 86th birthday. “This had been the tradition since the formal institution of the billion naira endowment five years ago. Now put on hold, Prof Ayo Olukotun, the occupier of the Professorial Chair was to examine ‘State Weaknesses and Governance Deficits in Contemporary Nigeria. “Of the greatest impact to Ijebu people is the poverty alleviation programme embraced by Kabiyesi for the economic and development benefits of his people. The initiative which took off with just N500, 000 seed money now has over N3bn worth of assets. It has become a model being adopted in the country. “The Awujale Adetona Professorial Chair in Governance at Olabisi Onabanjo University has gone further to sponsor the establishment of the Centre for Post-graduate Governance Studies for the award of postgraduate diploma, master’s degree and doctoral degree studies in Governance. “Age is not slowing down this quintessential monarch in the service of his people and his continued relevance to the nation, especially in its quest for the institutionalisation of good governance.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   