Kelvin Ekerete super Eagles forwards, Victor Osimhen and Moses Simon, are in line to be voted Lille and Nantes’ player of the season after their impressive performances for the Canary and Les Dogues respectively. Fans of both clubs have been urged to vote for their best player of the season among the pool of the registered players but the Nigerians have an advantage over their teammates after their fine displays for their French sides. With seven goals ahead of second-best goal scorer for Lille in the 2019/20 season, Victor Osimhen is a front runner for the club’s Player of The Season. Osimhen joined the French side from Belgian side Sporting Charleroi in the summer and became an instant sensation at the club finishing the season as the team’s top scorer with 15 goals, seven goals more that Loic Remy who netted eight times for the side. The 21-year-old’s performance for the club has seen him establish himself as Eagles No. 1 striker and has also seen him on the transfer radar of some of the top clubs in Europe including Real Madrid, Barcelona, Liverpool, Chelsea, Manchester United, AC Milan and Tottenham Hotspur. Osimhen who was voted Lille’s Player of The Month twice in August and September 2019 will face stiff competition for the award from Renato Sanches, and Benjamin André, who were also twice voted Player of The Month. However, for Nantes, Simon will be one of the fan favourites for the award. The Nigerian joined the French side on loan from Spanish La Liga side, Levante in the summer, scoring five goals while providing five assists for the team in the French Ligue 1 before the season was cancelled due to the outbreak of the coronavirus. The 24-year-old is Nantes joint top scorer in the league alongside Ludovic Blas who is also on nine goals but the Nigerian edged his teammate on the number of assists, five. Simon is ninth on the list of players with the most assist in the league. He scored a total of nine goals while providing eight assists for the club in 30 appearances. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 