Anna Okon A virtual screen service provider, WOWBii Interactive, has said it is working with state governors to create a virtual conference and meeting platform for them, thereby reducing the need for them to travel out of their various domains. The firm said the product, Wowbudd platform, offered technology-enhanced solutions that would enable face-to-face interactive tele-presence, in-room and virtual annotation and wireless casting. It added that the platform came with added digital signage solutions to create situation rooms or command centres for executive governors to remain in business mode despite the global pandemic. According to WOWBii, Wowbudd is a futuristic platform which connects seamlessly with legacy unified communication solution kits making it a hassle-free touch centre for multiple teams and locations. It noted in a statement, “This intervention provided exclusively by WOWBii is necessary to mitigate the effects of cessation or limitation of physical contacts, in line with the World Health Organisation’s social distancing recommendation, and to flatten the growth curve of the lethal coronavirus pandemic. “Beyond this, the adoption of immersive virtual meetings and digital interactions has been an evolving paradigm within global businesses and leading government establishments, who are aligning with operational best practice in collaborative interactivities and video conferencing. “Already, the Office of the Vice President runs its virtual meetings on this indigenous product as an innovative solution to the pandemic crisis, while Borno, Nasarawa, Lagos and Plateau states have completed the installation of the WOWBii equipment. Other Nigerian states are in line for installation of the WOWBii infrastructure.” The statement quoted the Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder, WOWBii, Mrs Terae Onyeje, as saying, “The COVID-19 pandemic is accelerating the adoption of immersive virtual interactivity in Nigeria. We are pleased that the federal and state governments are using these times to embrace and entrench tech-innovations in governance. “We are pleased to be an indigenous market leader in this space and being a beacon of transformation in the public sector and enterprise.” According to her, WOWBii is in the front-line for creating the readiness and capabilities of corporate enterprises, state governments and other government institutions, to achieve virtual interactions, business collaborations and effective meetings, through an African brand created by Africans. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 