ADELANI ADEPEGBA The Federal Capital Territory Administration has said it will enforce strictly the ban on interstate travel and other guidelines regulating the easing of the lockdown as part of measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the nation’s capital. Announcing the new guidelines on Saturday, the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, directed security agencies to enforce the overnight curfew from 8pm to 6am in order to prevent COVID-19 patients from coming into the FCT. The Chief Press Secretary to the minister, Mr Anthony Ogunleye, disclosed in a statement that all workers who reside outside the FCT had been directed to remain in their respective states of residence until the ban on inter-state travel is lifted. It noted, “Effective Monday, May 4, all civil servants in the FCT on Grade Level 14 and above are to report for work three times a week, on  Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays between the hours of 8am and 2pm. “All officers on essential duties are to carry on with their assigned responsibilities. All workers are to maintain safe distancing protocols of at least two metres and wear face masks at all times.” The statement said temperature checks and hand sanitizing protocols should be strictly adhered to at all entry points and access to offices tightly controlled. It further stated the number of visitors and customers must be limited while markets are to operate for two days in a week on Wednesdays and Saturdays between 8:00am and 3:00pm. The FCTA also advised restaurants to carry out home delivery services, warning that they should not open to the public. It said pharmacies may remain open overnight, adding that companies involved in food processing, drug manufacturing, and construction could commence operation, subject to approved health and safety guidelines. The minister said, “Banks are to open between the hours of  8am and 2pm and are to limit access by customers and the number of staff working on their premises to between 30 per cent and 50 per cent.” “All schools in the FCT remain closed until further notice. Schools are not permitted to commence third term operations in any form until directed otherwise by the relevant authorities.” Bello further stated that worship centres, clubs, bars, gardens, beer parlours, recreational parks, communal sports facilities, movie theatres, and others in the FCT remain closed.