Nike Popoola The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria on Tuesday called on the Federal Government to diversify the economy and review its policy to stir the country away from import dependence and increase non-oil revenue. A past President of the CIBN and keynote speaker, Mr Laoye, Jaiyeola, made the call at an advocacy dialogue webinar, organised by the Centre for Financial Studies of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria in Lagos. The CIBN advocacy dialogue, series 1.0, had the theme, COVID-19: “Tough choices for banking and other businesses.” Other speakers at the event were the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, Mr Demola Sogunle; the Director-General, Nigeria Employers Consultative Association, Mr Olawale Timothy; and Chief Economist/Director, Research and International Cooperation at the Afrexim Bank, Dr Hippolytee Fofack. Jaiyeola, who is also past president and director-general of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, said the economic outlook for Nigeria was not favourable, considering the sharp fall in global oil prices and the impact of coronavirus on the economy. He projected higher inflation rate going forward against the background of forex exchange shortages, devaluation arising from diminishing forex reserves and increased spending by the government to re-inflate the economy. Jaiyeola called on the government to review its economic policy and ensure a quick diversification of the economy to stir the country away from import dependence and increase non-oil revenue. Sogunle stated, “Nigeria has been hit by twin shocks – the COVID-19 pandemic and declining oil prices. In order for us to mitigate the negative impact of the twin shocks, we need to, as a country, maintain delicate balance between saving the lives of our people and growing the economy.” “These twin shocks are not necessarily mutually exclusive, and both can be pursued simultaneously.” Sogunle said that digitisation was clearly the way to go and future of banking going forward. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 