Johnny Edward Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr is cautious after he was handed a double target by the Nigerian Football Federation, but the Franco-German insists he is not afraid, after he was mandated by the federation to win next year’s Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon and also qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Rohr, on Wednesday, extended his deal with the NFF until 2022. “Before the 2018 World Cup, the NFF president (Amaju Pinnick) said we have to win the World Cup,” Rohr told the Eagles former media office, Colin Udoh, in an Instagram Live chat on Saturday. “It’s easy to speak. We love him, he’s very ambitious, we are all ambitious as well, but we have to be realistic as well and have to be in great humility. That has always been my philosophy. “We are No. 3 in Africa and No. 40 in the world now. There’s progress with the young team, so of course when you win bronze, you want to do better. It’s good to have ambition but you can lose games. “When I arrived in 2016, I was saddled with the task of qualifying for the 2018 World Cup and the 2019 AFCON, which we did, so, I’m not afraid now, as I’m very optimistic we will go to the next AFCON and the World Cup in Qatar.” Rohr also revealed that he won’t be begging any Nigerian player of foreign decent to play for the Eagles. The likes of Eberechi Eze, Kelvin Akpoguma, Joshua Zirkzee, Felix Uduokhai and Jordan Torunarigha, all players of Nigerian descent born abroad, have been reportedly linked with a switch of allegiance to Nigeria. “Firstly, I want to tell you that I will never beg any player to play for the Eagles,” Rohr added. “The decisions must be done by the players themselves. We cannot force these players to play for us, like we had with Cyril Dessers, he wants to play for us. I met him and I watched his game. For Zirkzee, he’s a fantastic talent but it won’t be easy to have him at the moment because he has featured well for the Dutch U-19s.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 