Abiodun Doherty When you are living in a rented house and you learn that your landlord or landlady is planning to sell the property many thoughts will naturally run through your mind. Depending on your relationship with your landlord and the process that he or she follows in the transaction you may be able to address some of your concerns by engaging directly with him or her. However, no matter the level of engagement between the two of you, the law is clear on many of the issues that will be of concern to you and most property owners and their agents follow these rules. The basic thing to know is that a property owner can sell their property anytime. It does not matter whether or not there are tenants in the property. It does not matter that they just renewed their tenancy or they are long-term tenants in the property. It is the right of the landlord to sell his property whenever he chooses to do so. He also does not need the permission of the tenants to sell his property. However, in most cases, the landlord through his agent informs the tenants of his intention to sell because it is actually a better approach to such transactions. More often than not the sale process involves a period of marketing the property and inspection by interested buyers. If a landlord or his agent decides to make the entire process a secret, it might be difficult organising inspection with the tenants still in possession. In order to schedule inspection of the property, the tenants need to be informed ahead. The interested purchaser would be interested in seeing the internal condition of the property and the state of the surrounding. It is a better approach for the landlord or his agent to inform the tenants ahead and respect their right of privacy. While the landlord can sell at anytime, the purchaser cannot take possession at anytime. There are laws that govern the process for taking possession of a tenanted property by the owner. There are required notices that must be given to the tenants and if the tenants do not vacate the property at the expiration of the required notices the landlord will need to go to the court for an order to eject the tenants from the property. The sale of the property does not confer on the landlord or the new owner the right to forcibly eject any tenant from the property. The new owner buys the property with all the existing tenancy rights still intact. However, all these can change if the parties agree otherwise. For instance, if the tenant has a fixed term tenancy agreement and has been informed of the sale of the property the landlord or the new owner could offer to pay the unused rent to the tenant if he or she agrees to vacate the property before the agreed term ends. If the landlord and the tenant have a good relationship, it is even possible for the landlord or the new owner to compensate the tenant for the sudden termination of the tenancy agreement before the agreed term and the cooperation of the tenant. This is strictly based on agreement between the parties. Once the property is sold, the new owner has several options, depending on his reason for buying the property. The new owner could retain the tenants or commence the process for ejecting them from the property. The new owner could also decide to retain the tenants on the condition that they negotiate a new tenancy agreement with him after reviewing their rents upwards. This is usually a difficult period for old tenants who have enjoyed stable rents that is lower than the rent currently paid in the neighbourhood. Also the cost of moving to a new property is several times more than renewing their tenancy in the current property. A tenant should carefully weigh his options once he is informed that his rental property is up for sale. It is usually wiser to consider that as an advance information to prepare to vacate the property or to get ready for a rental review. You never know what the intention of the new owner would be and you don’t want to be caught off guard. If you can afford the property, you can buy the property as well. But if you cannot then understand that you are not in a position to determine when and how the property is to be sold. Your tenancy agreement is not affected by the sale but whether or not you continue to stay in the property depends on the decision of the new owner. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com