Adelani Adepegba, Abuja A former member of the House of Representatives and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Igochukwu Aguma, has called for collaboration between the Federal Government and Rivers State to win the war against COVID-19. He noted that a protocol on the movement of oil and gas workers should be developed to address the deployment of the essential workers in Rivers State in view of the strategic importance of the state to the national economy. The FG and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, had been involved in a row over the arrest of some oil workers, including two pilots of Caverton Helicopters for allegedly coming into the state in violation of the lockdown imposed by the state government. The incident led to the redeployment of the state Commissioner of Police, Mustapha Dandaura, to the Force Headquarters, Abuja. But Aguma in a statement sent via email, on Sunday, said, “There is no doubt that the commitment and zeal by the Rivers State Government during this period has kept the figures of infected persons in the state very low when compared to other states. “Thus, a stronger collaborative measure and protocol should be developed between the Federal Government and Rivers State Government to help fight this war. “This may include protocol for essential workers, particularly oil and gas workers’ movement, palliatives, and test centres, given the strategic importance of Rivers State to our national economy because the benefits are mutual.” Aguma cautioned against tampering with the security architecture of the state, adding that this had affected the morale of the security operatives in Rivers. The ex-lawmaker also said, “It is my view that we must not play politics with this pandemic, no matter our political differences. It should be the resolve of every Nigerian to push for total recovery of our national life.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   