Sodiq Oyeleke 900 more British travellers stranded in Nigeria are set to return home on three flights chartered by the United Kingdom government, The PUNCH reports. This was contained in a statement on the website of the UK government obtained on Sunday. According to the statement, the new flights are scheduled as follows – May 29: Lagos – London, June 1: Lagos – London and June 6: Abuja – London. The statement added that “The additional charter flights have been arranged for British travellers, and their dependants, whose primary residence is the UK. Priority is given to the most vulnerable travellers, for example people with health conditions. READ ALSO: Stealing COVID-19 relief materials’ll attract grave consequences –Abiara “Once completed, these additional flights will bring the total number of people flown back to the UK from Nigeria on government charter flights to around 2,000, following flights arranged last week from Lagos and Abuja to London.” The statement also quoted UK’s Minister of State for Africa, James Duddridge, as assuring that the UK government would continue to work closely with its Nigerian counterpart. Duddridge said, “Our next phase of UK government charter flights will mean another 900 British travellers are able to return home from Nigeria. We appreciate this has been a difficult time and will continue to work closely with the Nigerian authorities to support those wishing to return to the UK.” It also urged British travellers to visit the Nigeria Travel Advice pages for further information. “The UK Government is working with the airline industry and host governments across the world to bring British travellers home as part of the plan announced by the Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab on March 30. “There is up to 75 million Pounds available for special charter flights to priority countries, focused on helping the most vulnerable travellers. “So far, charter flights have returned British travellers from countries including India, the Philippines, Ecuador, Bolivia, Nepal, Ghana, Tunisia, Algeria and Peru,” the statement added.