Johnson Okafor For the third time in a row, Dangote Group has emerged as the most admired African brand. A telecommunication giant, MTN, was also named in a survey of 100 African top brands announced in a virtual global event that incorporated the market openings of Kenya, South Africa and Nigeria. GTBank returned to the top spot in financial services and the United Kingdom’s BBC retained its media category ranking as the most admired media brand in a separate category sub-survey of the most admired financial services and media brands in Africa. African brands only occupy 13 of the 100 entries, seven less from 2019. According to a statement from Dangote, established 10 years ago to coincide with the 2010 FIFA World Cup, the world’s biggest single sporting event, the Brand Africa 100: Africa’s Best Brands survey and rankings have established themselves as the most authoritative survey, analysis and metric of brands in Africa. The statement also noted that African brands only occupied 13 of the 100 entries, seven less from last year’s. Founder and Chairman of Brand Africa and Brand Leadership, Thebe Ikalafeng, during an online interactive session via Zoom, said, “African brands have an important role in helping to build the image, competitiveness and transforming the continent’s promise into a real change. “It’s concerning that in the 10 years since the triumphant FIFA World Cup in South Africa, which globally highlighted the promise and capability of Africa, and despite the vibrant entrepreneurial environment, Africa is not creating more competitive brands to meet the needs of its growing consumer market.” Group Chief Corporate Communication Officer of the Dangote Group, Anthony Chiejina, in his reaction, said the company had a long standing reputation for quality, relevance compliance and social stewardship. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 