Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki Sunday Oji, a 20-year-old student of Comprehensive Secondary School, Ogwuma Village, in Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, said he narrowly escaped being buried alive by suspected cultists. The PUNCH reports that some communities in the LGA have, in the past one month, enmeshed in bloody cult clashes. Oji, who spoke on his hospital bed at Mater Misericordiae Hospital, Afikpo, on Wednesday, said the suspects mistook him for a rival cult member and dragged him into a bush where they dug a grave to bury him alive. The victim, who had matchet cuts all over his body, explained that it took the intervention of local hunters for him to escape the plot. He said,  “The thugs claimed they were avenging the killing of one of their members who was shot dead last week in the area. READ ALSO: Govs ask NASS to step down Infectious Diseases Bill “While I was in our compound, one of my friends came and told me to escort him to buy something. When we reached the store, we saw three boys on bikes destroying and looting the shop of one Imo Orji. One of them came to me and asked me where was Imo. And I told him I don’t know. “Before I could finish speaking, the other person interrupted me and said I should follow them. Before I knew what was happening, they started heating and stabbing me, saying I was the one who shot their member. They bundled me on one of the bikes and zoomed off to Ekoli where they dug a pit, threw me in, and covered me with sand up to chest level. I was inside there suffocating, shouting when they heard the footsteps of people coming and ran away.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Loveth Oda, confirmed the incident, noting that nine suspects in connection with the crime and recent killings in the affected communities were in detention. She said they would be prosecuted. “Though we arrested thirty-six of them, they were screened and nine of them are in detention. Investigations are ongoing and more will be arrested,” she said.