Peter Dada, Akure The seven-man screening committee of the Unity Forum of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, on Wednesday denied allegations of bribery levelled against by members of the group over the selection of its governorship candidate. Leader of the APC Unity Forum, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, had on Tuesday announced Chief Olusola Oke, as the group’s consensus candidate for the forthcoming APC primary. Other aspirants took issue with the announcement with some of them alleging that the committee was financially induced to arrive at their decision. The chairman of the screening committee, Senator Omogunwa, who spoke with journalists in Akure, while denying the allegation said, “When we are holding meetings, there is no water, no biscuits and we are working day and night. “So, when Segun Abraham came and was going, he gave the seven-man committee N100,000 openly. Jimi Odimayo gave the committee N200,000, Adelani gave the committee N500,000, Adelegan gave the committee N50,000, Alhaji Kazeem gave N20,000. All of them gave the committee the money openly there. “I think the total amount is N1.2m that was shared by the seven of us. From this money, we booked hotel for three nights for the secretary of the committee, because he was coming to and from Ile Ife. If that is what they say is kickback or bribe, may be yes, but any other thing is not to my knowledge.” On Oke’s choice, the former lawmaker explained that the Committee’s Secretary, Prof. Sola Ehindero showed a preference for a technocrat as governor while the only woman in the committee preferred a female aspirant. He said, “All the aspirants are competent but I agreed with the majority that said, Chief Oke. The secretary left without signing (the report). The only woman in our midst also did not sign. “The aspirants told us to do it the way it pleased us and they will support whoever emerges. We followed the minds of the public. A politician should wait for his time.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  