Tony Okafor, Awka The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige has said he is too busy serving the nation at the national level to consider a shot at the 2021 Anambra State governorship election. Ngige who spoke to reporters in his country home in Alor, in Idemili Local Government Area, of the state on Sunday said although he had the right to contest, he was too busy with his national assignment as a minister to start eyeing “a provincial job.” He spoke after presenting cash and food items, totaling N15m as COVID-19 palliatives to some vulnerable persons in the area. Ngige said, “Whether you’re a member of APC or PDP, APGA, Accord, APA, PPP, once you are vulnerable, you get. We started with my town. We will fan out to my local government, then to my entire senatorial district. We also intend to reach out to the church. If we don’t do it and COVID-19 kills all of us, what then will my foundation do? “Yes, there have been speculations that I am eyeing the governorship of Anambra State. They have written about it in a lot of media. I am a politician. They have the right to speculate on my next move. My next move is very vast. “Elections will come in 2023, I have a right to vie for any position. I can vie for Senate. I can vie for President if I so wish. Election will be coming in Anambra State, latest November 2021 to elect a successor to Obiano. I am not disqualified. I have a right to say I can run. “I don’t have interest for now in Anambra governorship because I am on a national assignment. “Our government has decided to enlarge the list of conditional cash transfer to bring more people. Some private individuals have made their own contribution running into billions. Government is sharing their own money and its own food to these people. It is still not enough. Individuals and organisations that can assist were beckoned on to assist. So, what my foundation is doing is part of the assistance.” The minister said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has done well for Nigeria especially the South East withing the last five years.  He listed work on the Second Niger Bridge, stretches of Enugu-Onitsha and Enugu-Port Harcourt highways and the Akanu Ibiam Airport as some of them. Speaking on the lingering strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Ngige described the union’s action as laughable, stating that the leadership of the union was deceiving its members. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 