John Ameh The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), said on Saturday that the raging coronavirus disease had taken a heavy toll on Nigerians, disrupting their spiritual, social and economic well-being. In his Eid-el-Fitr message to Muslims, Buhari said the pandemic “put a damper on what would otherwise have been a time of celebration for the Muslim faithful to mark the end of the Ramadan fasting period.” He noted that “for the first time in recent years, the COVID-19 pandemic has taken a heavy toll on the people’s spiritual, social and economic lives.” However, he urged them to be in high spirits and remain strong in faith. Giving examples on how the pandemic affected Muslims, the President said “this year’s fasting period was particularly challenging for Muslims because they had to forgo many important aspects of their daily worship, including the routine congregations for prayer and the recitation and interpretation of the Holy Qur’an as well as travelling for the lesser pilgrimage to Makkah.” The message, which was signed by his spokesperson, Mr Garba Shehu, quoted Buhari further, “It is not easy to give up many of these important duties and activities, but it became imperative to do so in order to control or limit the spread of this deadly disease.” The President commended Nigerians for living with the measures his regime introduced to contain the spread of the infection. He said, “Let me use this opportunity to commend the sacrifices of both Muslims and Christians for their cooperation in the enforcement of the social distancing guidelines. “I am well aware of the inconveniences these tough measures have brought on the lives of Nigerians, including limiting religious activities and gatherings in large numbers. No government would intentionally impose these tough and demanding measures on its citizens if it had a choice.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 