Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe The Niger State Police Command has arrested one Maikudi Abdullahi for allegedly adulterating fertilizer produced by TAK Agro Limited and recovered over 456 bags of the product from his farm. PUNCH Metro learnt that Abdullahi had contracted one Nma Mohammed to convey 50 bags of fertilizer from Minna to Bida, but the driver was accosted by a staff member of TAK Agro in the Kpakungu area of the state. It was gathered that the TAK Agro employee, who was suspicious of the quality of the product being conveyed by Mohammed in a truck with number plate Niger AA 994 WSH, stopped him to examine the bags of fertilizer and noticed that the contenct was different from the company’s product. The TAK official was said to have called the police, who arrested Mohammed and took him to the Kpakungu Police Division, where he confessed to being contracted  by Abdullahi. The Administrative Manager, TAK Agro Limited, Philip Musa, told PUNCH Metro that Abdullahi was a registered dealer with the firm, adding that the management wanted the suspect to be prosecuted. He said, “One of our staff members, who was on break, saw a truck conveying fertilizer in our company’s bags and upon close examination, he discovered that the fertilizer was adulterated. He called me and I came over to where they were. “The police were called and the driver of the truck was arrested and taken to the police station, where he said it was Alhaji Maikudi Abdullahi, who is a registered dealer with us, who sent him to deliver the fertilizer to Bida.” Confirming the arrest to PUNCH Metro, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Wasiu Abiodun, said the matter was under investigation. He stated, “Policemen attached to the Kpakungu Division, while on patrol along the Kpakungu-Bida Road, intercepted and arrested one Nma Mohammed, who was driving a truck loaded with 50 bags of fertilizer suspected to be adulterated. “During interrogation, the driver mentioned one Alhaji Maikudi Abdullahi of the Farm Centre, Minna, as the person who contracted him to convey the fertilizer to Bida. Further investigation led to the arrest of the said Alhaji Maikudi Abdullahi and the recovery of more than 456 bags of the same product from his Farm Centre. The suspect has confessed to the crime and the case is under investigation.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 