Olaleye Aluko, Abuja The troops of Operations Thunder Strike and Whirl Punch have conducted a joint clearance exercise on suspected bandits’ hideouts in Mashigi Galbi, Damba and Kabarasha villages in the Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, during which 17 bandits were killed. The Defence Headquarters, Abuja, said on Monday that during the joint operation, which was also supported by the Air Component of Operation Gama Aiki, three houses and a church building were “partially damaged at Kabarasha village but there was no civilian casualty.” The DHQ Defence Media Operations said in a statement that a panel in liaison with the Kaduna State Government had been set up by the military authorities to investigate the damage to the buildings. The DMO Coordinator, Maj Gen John Enenche, said, “In continuation of operations to rid Kaduna State of bandits and other criminal elements, the armed forces conducted a joint clearance operation involving troops of Operations Thunder Strike, Whirl Punch and the air component of Operation Gama Aiki at suspected bandits’ hideouts around Mashigi Galbi, Damba Community and Kabarasha villages. “During the operation, 17 bandits were neutralised, while several others escaped with gunshot injuries. However, in the course of pursuing the bandits, three houses and a church building were partially damaged at Kabarasha village. There was no civilian casualty. The Armed Forces of Nigeria regret this unfortunate incident and a panel has been set up to investigate the occurrence in liaison with the Kaduna State Government. “The buildings have been identified with a view to providing adequate compensation to the owners. Meanwhile, calm has been restored to the area. Residents, who initially fled the area due to fear of bandits’ reprisal attack, have returned to the community.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  