JESUSEGUN ALAGBE and DAUD OLATUNJI Two persons lost their lives in an accident that occurred at the Ota Old Tollgate along the Abeokuta-Lagos Expressway around 12.40pm on Saturday. It was learnt that the accident involved three vehicles – a white coloured MACK tanker with no registration number, a red coloured MACK truck with registration number AAA448XJ and a HOWO truck belonging to Dangote Cement Company with registration number GN7248-16. A statement by the Superintendent Route Commander, Public Education Office, Federal Road Safety Corps, Florence Okpe, indicated that those who died in the accident were two males. She, however, said a female was rescued by the FRSC Rescue Team and taken to the State Hospital, Ota for medical treatment. “The suspected cause of the accident was due to brake failure by the MACK truck with registration number AAA448XJ conveying a container as it drove towards Lagos but lost control and overran the road divider to crash into the other two trucks travelling in the opposite direction,” the FRSC said. The FRSC Sector Commander, Ogun State Command, Clement Oladele, said the crash was avoidable if the MACK truck which caused the accident was certified mechanically fit before being driven. He also stated that the location where the crash occurred was notorious for frequent road accidents. The statement said the deceased’s corpses had been deposited at the Ifo General Hospital Mortuary, Ogun State while the obstruction caused by the accident had been cleared for free flow of traffic. Oladele commiserated with the families of the victims and enjoined them to contact the FRSC Command, Ota to claim the victims’ property recovered from the accident scene. The state Public Relations Officer of the Traffic Road Compliance Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, stated that the truck driver who caused the accident ran away while the vehicles involved in the accident had been taken to the FRSC office. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 