Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. A key outcome the tech ecosystem has been working hard to achieve is an exit and yesterday, fortune smiled on the ecosystem with the acquisition of Paystack by Stripe. This is huge not just for Nigeria but the entire African ecosystem, because it simply means that start-ups, developers and investors will be more enthusiastic and confident about the potential of the ecosystem. Our tech ecosystem faces unique challenges. It is struggling, undergoing construction, failing, making progress, albeit slowly, and painstakingly. I have written extensively on the sector for years, sharing insights and thought patterns, which I believe can change the ecosystem. Following yesterday’s exit, I decided to begin a monthly or bi-monthly series with the caption ‘Tech Thought Leaders’, which will basically feature folks working hard to build a better country/continent leveraging technology. The reality is that there are a few people that have dedicated the last three or more decades trying to expand technology across Africa and of course, there are the ‘new kids’ on the block who are also trying to solve problems leveraging technology. My goal will be to talk about key lessons about their journey that others can truly learn from. Everywhere we look, we see tech start-ups, coding programs, and different initiatives with many not meeting expectations. While I acknowledge the challenges faced by a developing country, I think one missing ingredient in many of these failing start-ups is the proper structure and in some cases, unfounded pride. The thought leader of today is the Chairman, Zinox Group, Leo Stan Ekeh, who recently launched one of Africa’s most advanced technology experience centres designed to deepen the appreciation and use of technology. I am a firm believer in creating solutions and steering tech conversations in a way that is understandable to the regular guy or girl, so that is what I will be doing. In his interview with another thought leader, Founder, CWG Plc, Austin Okere, the Zinox boss shared five tips that can help you build. Having led the team that delivered the largest single ICT project in sub-Saharan Africa, appointed as a global partner by Microsoft, and been named one of the top tech CEOs in Nigeria by Ventures Africa, we can agree that he knows what he is talking about. Here are the five guidelines that can help you as you build: A thought leader is one with a vast repertoire of knowledge, experience and expertise. The above-mentioned guidelines are what have helped built everyday people and turned them into leaders worth listening to. Passion, knowledge, and courage are other attributes displayed by these wonderful people called thought leaders. There is one other attribute associated with thought leaders. This is the legacy they leave for the upcoming generation; in other words, the seeds they plant in order to groom their successors. The recent launch of the Tech Experience Centre cited within Yudala Heights is a legacy that would influence the Nigerian technological growth in the coming decades. It will give Nigeria the technological recognition it yearns for. The Nigerian tech sector needs more thought leaders than it ever did. We need young, energetic and rising leaders who believe in the country and are willing to get the work done. These people will take our tech to the world. So, are you a thought leader? What rules do you live by? What legacy will you leave for those coming after you? I believe these are pertinent questions that we need to ask ourselves as we work hard to deepen technology in Nigeria. A big congratulations to Shola Akinlade and the Paystack team. CFA is the co-founder of techbuild.africa, a tech and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com