Peter Dada, Akure The leaders of the All Progressives Congress on Wednesday stormed Akure, the capital of Ondo State, to rally support for the re-election of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Apart from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who addressed the crowd of party supporters via pre-recorded videos, other party leaders, including Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, several governors, as well as members of the National Assembly attended the event physically. The party leaders converged on the Akure township stadium for the final campaign rally in support of the re-election of Akeredolu. President Buhari, Vice President Osinbajo and APC governors while speaking during the campaign rally, unanimously endorsed Akeredolu and his running mate, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, and urged the people of Ondo State to vote for APC to ensure continuity of lofty projects embarked upon by the APC-led administration in the State. Buhari, who addressed the crowd at the stadium via a recorded message, declared that Akeredolu deserved to be re-elected to consolidate what he had done in his first term. He said “I have no doubt that our candidate is a good brand for APC to market. “His performance within the limit of available resources is endearing. He has taken the state to a new level and on the path of prosperity. “Having had the privilege of commissioning some of the projects executed by his administration, which are endearing, I join here today to declare that Governor Akeredolu deserves to be re-elected to consolidate what he had done in his first term.” Also addressing the crowd via a recorded message, Osinbajo said Akeredolu-led APC administration’s achievements were visible in all the nooks and crannies of Ondo State. Osinbajo urged Ondo people to vote for Akeredolu to enable him continue with the good governance which he started. Sanwo-Olu who is the Chairman of the APC National Campaign Council for the Ondo election said, “You have all seen the good works of Akeredolu in Ondo State. So, I want to appeal that you should allow him to go for a second term to complete the work he started. “The President and Vice President have endorsed him. They have also told us about his good works. I want all of you to come out in large numbers on Saturday to vote massively for Akeredolu.” He went on to present the candidate and his running mate, to the crowd of party supporters. Other party leaders including Buni, Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti) Yahaya Bello (Kogi) Abubakar Bagudu (Kebbi) also canvassed for votes for the APC candidate in separate goodwill messages. However, the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and the Pioneer Acting National Chairman of the party, Chief Bisi Akande were absent from the event. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 