Though you are from a known political family in the state, many were surprised when you quit a flourishing career in banking to contest the Lagos-East senatorial seat. What led to that decision? Let me tell you that my coming into the race wasn’t by accident. I resolved this year that I was going to retire from banking and I will tell you why. I put in about 32 years of work-life after school and 29 years of the work-life I had spent in banking. I have been able to get to the top of my career in banking not once but twice. At some point, I functioned as an executive director in First Bank of Nigeria and thereafter, I had the privilege of being the one to rescue the defunct Skye Bank that now transited into Polaris Bank. Having done these and in particular, when I was going for the last assignment in 2016, the mandate from the regulator which is the Central Bank of Nigeria to me was clear.  It was a mission to rescue a sinking bank. Its prudential ratios were already declining and the bank was on the path of collapse. It was actually making losses. By 2018, we had been able to stabilise the bank and that was when it transited into Polaris Bank. I was also very careful in nurturing Polaris Bank to its present status. In 2019, the bank turned the curve and its prudential ratios became positive and also on the path of stability. By 2020, it was clear in my mind that my mission was accomplished and the debate was what next to do. It’s a career in banking you can say flourished and still flourishing. But you see there is a time in the life of everyone when you must learn to say ‘you have had enough.’ In fact, the competitive landscape of banking is changing and it is now by digital transformation. It’s time to leave the stage and give younger people the chance to express themselves. As I was thinking of what next to do, the opportunity came. In 2011, I was invited by the then Governor Babatunde Fashola to be commissioner for finance. I accepted it and did it wholeheartedly.  However, it was clear to me then that governance and public leadership is good. But also to have one’s rightful place in public leadership, one must also come across as an accomplished individual. It was the reason why I had to leave. I had a four-year arrangement but after two years, I saw the opportunity to be an executive director (in a bank) and opted for that. It’s uncommon. Nobody would leave the position of a commissioner of finance which is almost equivalent to the position of a minister of finance in some environments. It’s about what one desired to be. For me, character and accomplishments matter. Those are part of what we bring to bear in both private and public leadership. So, it’s not about quitting a flourishing banking career, coming into public space is not accidental for me. I had a taste of it and knew that it’s something I could always return to. But one’s corporate life is not something one could always return to because it has an age limit. I have come into this well prepared based on the background and pedigree I had garnered over the years. Your opponent in the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party said the party has no godfathers hence he’s without one. Who is your political godfather in the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress? I don’t believe in the concept of godfathers and the APC is not a party of godfathers. It’s a progressive party. Let me say that I come from a progressive political family. My late dad was an accomplished professional just as I am following in his footsteps. He was a jurist and one of the disciples of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. As a matter of fact, under the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria, he represented Ikorodu as a senator between 1979 and 1983. If you examine that, you would discover that I belong to a progressive political family. I believe in progressive politics. My younger brother is a member of the state assembly. At some point, he was the chief whip. That shows that it’s about one’s substance and not about godfatherism. Let me take it a step further. At the time I was coming into the race, we were about 15. There are other 14 people who are eminently qualified as I am and parade strong curriculum vitaes too. We came together and there was a consensus built around my candidature. Beyond that, we took the consensus to the leadership of the party from the Governor’s Advisory Council to seek appropriate approval for the consensus to the executive leadership and then to the direct primary which was the affirmation done on September 3, 2020, for ratification. It was done by over 11,000 party members. In your acceptance speech as the APC candidate you noted that Lagos had six million registered voters out of which Lagos-East took two million. How do you intend to convince undecided voters in Ibeju-Lekki, Ikorodu, Kosofe, Somolu and especially Epe comprising the district to vote for you on October 31, 2020? Let me tell you that the conviction is ongoing and I can see an outpouring of support. I have been to the local governments. The people in Epe gave us a good reception and it was further established by the league of traditional leaders who gave us their endorsement. My pedigree on its own has an appeal. I parade trust and confidence. I was entrusted with human and material resources when saddled with the Skye Bank assignment. I had the fate of over four million customers with over N1tn deposits and 8,000 staff in a bank that was then sinking. What better attestation of trust can you find? These are the qualities I am bringing to quality representation. The Lagos PDP has vowed to use the bye-election to make a statement of ending APC reign in the state especially on the background of the outcome of the Edo governorship poll which the party won. What’s your reaction to this? It’s not the first time the party is seeking such aspiration. We hope it will not be the last time and we will always encourage them to seek such. The reality is that Lagosians know what they want. They know the kind of representation and leadership they want. Lagosians have rejected them in the past and they will continue to reject them. The political shoes you desire to put on was last worn by the late grass-roots mobiliser and four-term member of the state assembly, Senator Bayo Osinowo. What are you going to do differently for your district and Lagos as a whole? May Allah continue to forgive the sins of our highly-respected brother. May he continue to have solace in the Almighty God. Indeed, he was truly a grass-root politician and I had a cordial relationship with him. I grew up within the district and lived my midlife in Somolu, Bariga. Also, in Ikorodu where I come from, I am a member of the foremost club in the area known as Oriwu Club. Part of my agenda is quality representation, the Omoluabi character and the welfare of people in that belt will be of supreme interest to me. Above all, I will be loyal to the party and the people in the region. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com