Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Federal Government on Monday said it would install at least one million meters in the residents of unmetered electricity consumers before the end of this year. Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, said this in series of tweets posted via the verified Twitter handle of the Office of the Minister of Power. Mamman said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had directed a mass metering programme for the power sector starting immediately. He said, “From the briefings I have received so far, the youths are taking up opportunities in this aspect as well as in renewable energy. “This is another way the government will be empowering young Nigerians as the local assembly, installation and the maintenance of these meters are largely handled by our industrious youths. “The programme has begun with a target for one-million-meter installation at least by December. The @cenbank (Central Bank of Nigeria) is supporting local firms and Meter Asset Providers on the financing and I urge our youths to take advantage of this.” The minister stated that the Federal Government was creating job opportunities for Nigerian youths in the power sector through key programmes. He said the five million Solar Home System project, mass metering scheme, among others, were some of the projects. Mamman, who disclosed this during a stakeholder meeting in Jalingo, Taraba State, addressed youths on the need to foster peace and harmony. The minister also spoke on the backdrop of the #EndSARS protests lauded the youths for making their voices heard on developmental issues. He, however, urged the youths to shun violent protests while giving the government a chance to implement their demands. Mamman told his audience that the five million solar power project would be implemented through the Economic Sustainability Plan being steered by Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. He said, “Already plans are ongoing to kick start this and it is being designed to ensure that majority of the firms and the installers are Nigerian youths. “I am directly in touch with the implementing agencies which are the @realREANigeria and the @ndphconline on this, I can assure you.” The power minister said the Federal Government was tailoring more programmes for the youths through the Siemens Presidential Power Initiative and in building capacity on renewable energy. He said, “There is assurance of Mr. President that Nigerians will be beneficiaries of the Siemens project, which will turn around the power supply situation of Nigeria. “When this happens, industries will be revived and SMEs driven by youths will thrive more.” On the 3050 megawatts Mambilla Hydropower project in Taraba, the minister assured the host communities that the project would not shortchange the residents but would bring development to them. He said, “For the host communities, let me assure you that this project is not in any way going to short-change anyone of you as we are deploying global best standards for compensation and other engagements with you. “All we need from you is your cooperation, understanding, and support.” He said the doors of government were open for inputs from the host communities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com