Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The military authorities have threatened to deal with thugs and miscreants disrupting the ongoing peaceful protests by #EndSARS campaigners demanding police reforms in the country. The Defence Headquarters frowned on the violent attacks on the activists and warned the perpetrators to desist or face sanctions. The PUNCH reports that some of the protesters were attacked and injured by thugs in Abuja and Lagos on Wednesday. About seven vehicles were also vandalised at the Berger roundabout, Wuse, Abuja. But the Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, in a statement on Thursday, stated that the military would not condone further attacks on the peaceful protesters. The statement was titled, ‘Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies assured Nigerians of their safety and stability of the nation, warn against violent protests in the country.’ It stated, “The Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies have observed with dismay some violence-related protests across the country, particularly the increasing number of attacks on peaceful protesters by thugs and miscreants. “This unfolding event against peace-loving Nigerians will not be condoned. Hence, thugs and miscreants are hereby warned to desist from engaging in violent activities against peaceful Nigerians henceforth, or face appropriate measures.” The Military High Command encouraged citizens to go about their normal activities without fear of intimidation or harassment “as the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies are on ground for their safety.” “In clear terms, any attempt to undermine the democracy of our beloved nation under any cover will not be allowed,” the DHQ warned. READ ALSO: #EndSARS group receives over N77m in one week Earlier, while addressing Defence correspondents during the weekly briefing on ongoing security operations on Thursday, Enenche had condemned the attempts by some hoodlums to provoke the protesters. Responding to a question on the planned nationwide protests against insecurity by the Coalition of Northern Groups, the coordinator said the military was concerned by the spreading civil disobedience. He stated, “We are not worried but concerned and committed. You will become worried when you have remotely been involved; a lot has happened. You know that this thing (insecurity) has been ongoing for 40 years, as quoted by the authorities in Southern Kaduna. I want to say it is the same thing that happened all over the place.” He explained that the armed forces were always reviewing its strategy and operations in line with the directives of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.).