Peter Dada, Akure The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, has warned corps members who will be participating in the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, not to be involved in any act that could make them run foul of electoral laws. Ibrahim also specifically warned them not to post results of the election on social media while urging them to build on the performance of their counterparts in Edo State as part of the process to free and fair elections. The DG made this known on Friday in Akure, the Ondo State capital, during his official visit to the state ahead of the forthcoming governorship poll. Addressing the corps members, the DG urged them to always maintain the neutrality that they were known for. He also advised the corps members to always be security conscious and situationally aware of their environment. “You should not compromise the integrity of the scheme and not post results of the election on social media,” the NYSC boss warned. The DG later visited the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, saying the visit was important because traditional institutions were also stakeholders in the electoral process and were in the best position to speak to their subjects on peaceful conduct during elections. ”The traditional institutions are also stakeholders in the electoral process. Please help urge the good people of Akure and Ondo State in general to protect corps members,” he appealed to the monarch. READ ALSO: Appeal Court upholds Diri’s election as Bayelsa governor “I assure you of the support from the NYSC. Our corps members are digital corps members, always tell them what you want. I want to urge you to tap into their resources of corps members around you,” Ibrahim added. Responding, Oba Aladelusi said the peaceful, free and fair election in Edo could be replicated in Ondo. The monarch said he believed in the corps members and was sure of their neutrality, saying, “Whoever emerges is our governor, your corps members have been doing well so far.”