Adelani Adepegba, Abuja No fewer than 37 former members of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad have been recommended for dismissal from service. The Police Service Commission is also expected to order the prosecution of 24 other ex-SARS operatives for various acts of professional misconduct. These were the highlights of the report of the Presidential Panel on Reform of SARS set up by the Federal Government in 2018 to reform the dreaded unit. The presidential panel had, among other things, investigated allegations of human rights violations and abuse of office against SARS and recommended reform or restructuring of the outfit. Presenting the report to the PSC Chairman, Musiliu Smith, in Abuja on Friday, the Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights Commission, Tony Ojukwu, called for a speedy implementation of the panel recommendations. A statement by the PSC spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani, said Ojukwu observed that the PSC chairman had the capacity to deal appropriately with the report of the panel. The statement was titled ‘PSC to partner Human Rights Commission, promises immediate action on report of presidential panel on reform of SARS.’ “We have come to see a PSC determined to play a leading role in the reform of the Nigeria Police Force,” Ojukwu was quoted to have said in the statement. The NHRC boss noted that the reform was the most topical issue in the country at present, adding that a lot was expected from the commission. He noted that the panel called for and received 113 complaints on alleged human rights violations from across the country and 22 memoranda on suggestions on how to reform and restructure SARS and the Nigeria Police in general. The statement read, “Ojukwu said, at the end of the public hearing, the panel recommended 37 police officers for dismissal and 24 were recommended for prosecution.    ,, Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com