Kayode Oyero Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has appealed to #EndSARS protesters in the state to remain calm and “let the effects of the protest go down”. The governor stated that Federal and State governments had heard the voices of the youths and had swung into action. He, therefore, urged the #EndSARS protesters to allow governments at all levels play its roles to make the demanded changes happen. Thousands of youths across the country have in the last one week been protesting against the harassment and extrajudicial killings perpetrated mainly by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force. The police authorities have since disbanded the unit and announced the Special Weapons and Tactics unit as its replacement. The Lagos governor, on Tuesday, took the demands of the protesters to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at Aso Villa in Abuja. However, the protests have continued with many demanding for more reforms. Speaking at the 20th National Women Virtual Conference of the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials held at Eko Hotels and Suites in Lagos on Wednesday, Sanwo-Olu urged the youths to leave the streets and allow their “elected representatives to take up the challenge from where they left off.” This was contained in a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile. The statement was titled, ‘#EndSARS Protests: Sanwo-Olu, Oyetola, Lagos First Lady Urge Youths To Remain Calm’. Sanwo-Olu was quoted in the statement as saying, “I want to humbly request and appeal to our youths that their voices have been heard; their grievances have been well taken; their cause is a just and important cause. We have listened to them and listened to them very well. Government more than ever before will do things differently and positively. We can all see the efforts we have started since yesterday and today going forward. “I want to appeal once again that because of the global pandemic that we have witnessed over last six to seven months, the youths should let the effects of the protest go down. And they should know that their voice has been heard, let government play their roles and play it well.” He lamented that the protests have led to gridlocks that have paralysed business activities in different parts of the state and other parts of Nigeria. “Businesses have suffered; people are just coming back to businesses. It would be unfair for those businesses not to be able to get back on their feet again because we have a larger social-economic effect. READ ALSO: Don’t be distracted, Aisha Yesufu tells #EndSARS protesters “I know and I appreciate the challenges that all of you are going through. I appreciate the unfortunate incident that has happened to some of our youths. But like I said, we have heard you and we heard you very well. “Please let those changes that you asked for, let them begin to happen. We have made commitments in Lagos State and other states too have made commitments. Let us see the effects of those changes and commitments we have given,” the governor noted. Also speaking at the event, Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, said, “Let me appeal to our youths protesting against police brutality to remain calm and allow their elected representatives to take up the challenge from where they left off. “We are convinced as leaders and we are ready to join the voice of reason to make Nigeria a better place.”