Peter Dada, Akure Barely three weeks after the Ondo State Governorship Election, the Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate in the election, Mr Eyitayo Jegede, has approached the state election petition tribunal to challenge the poll result. The All Progressives Congress’ candidate, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, was declared the winner of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission, having scored the highest number of the total votes cast in the exercise. According to the INEC, Akeredolu defeated Jegede, having polled 292,830 votes while the PDP candidate scored 195,791 votes. After studying the election result for over two weeks, the PDP candidate headed to the tribunal on Friday to challenge it. Speaking on the legal action in a statement he personally issued on Friday, Jegede expressed optimism of getting justice through the court. He said, “In the last 19 days, I have been silent. Today (Friday), we will break that silence in obedience to the provisions of our laws. We will commence a challenge against the declaration and return made by INEC in respect of the Ondo State Governorship Election of October 10, 2020. “By this process, let our people again begin to hope for a better future to the glory of God.” However, Akeredolu has described the legal action taken by Jegede as a mere voyage of illusion, saying he was not bothered by the development. Speaking through the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr Donald Ojogo, the governor wished his opponent well in the legal tussle. “There is no reaction other than wishing him (Jegede) all the best as he struggles to keep his supporters under another voyage of illusion,” he said. Meanwhile, Akeredolu has approved the setting up of a 25-member committee ahead of his inauguration for his second term in office,  slated for February 24, 2021 The governor, in a statement, said the committee was expected to come up with an acceptable programme of events for the inauguration and ensure its success. The committee, which comprises appointed and elected officers of the state government, is headed by the Deputy Governor-Elect,  Mr Lucky Ayedatiwa, while Kunle Adebayo is the Secretary. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com