Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, has for the third time asked the State Assembly to extend the tenures of chairmen and members of Local Government Transition Committees. Abiodun’s latest request was contained in a letter to the Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, which was read on the floor, during plenary, on Wednesday. The Governor’s letter dated 16th October, 2020, reads in part, “Considering the fact that local government elections have not been scheduled due to prevailing circumstances, it has become expedient to request for the extension of the tenure of the transition committees to avert the creation of a vacuum in local government administration. “Arising from the foregoing, I write to request that the tenure of the Local Government Transition Committees be extended for another period of three months.” The Speaker subsequently referred the request to the committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, for further legislative action. Abiodun, had in January, inaugurated the chairmen and members of the committee for the 20 local government areas for an initial period of three months. After the expiration of the three months, he sought for and got approval of the state assembly to extend their stay for an additional three months first in April then in July. It was gathered that the crisis rocking the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress was responsible for the state of affairs. Abiodun’s loyalists’ control one faction, while former governors: Segun Osoba and Ibikunle Amosun control two other factions. When contacted, the chairman of the faction of the party loyal Amosun, Mr.Derin Adebiyi, said, “I don’t want to comment because I don’t want my voice to be added to anything controversial.” Speaking on the issue, the leader of the group loyal to Osoba, Nurudeen Oyeleye, said, “let me get the clearance before I talk.” Special Adviser to the Governor on Public Communications, Remmy Hazzan, however, said the decision to seek an extension was due to prevailing circumstances. He said, “There are so many things that are connected to election, number one is funds. “And, we are commencing the payment of minimum wage this month. So, where is the money to start with? We are trying to do a lot of financial reengineering. “Another thing is that, we have to also set up the state Independent Electoral Commission, and of course, you should understand that men and women that will go into that must not be partisan. “So, due diligence has to be brought in to ensure that we don’t begin to attract the sentiments of bias even before those ones set to work.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com