Dayo Ojerinde The National Chairman, Association of Community Pharmacists’ of Nigeria, Mr Samuel Adekola, has urged the Federal Government to curb quackery in the country’s health sector. Adekola, in a statement on Thursday, said the ACPN frowned at the idea of Patent and Proprietary Medicine Vendors Licence holders handling family planning services. He said, “In recent times, the ACPN has been fed with information from grapevine sources that the Federal Ministry of Health, in league with some international non-governmental organisations have concluded that Patent and Proprietary Medicine Vendors Licence (PPMVL) holders should be allowed to handle fresh dimensions of family planning services which will include sales and dispensing of both oral and injectable contraceptives in Nigeria. “This absurdity is grounded on the erroneous belief that these PPMVL holders have enough numbers to service the rural communities in Nigeria with a presumed competence coefficient that will drive success stories in our decaying and collapsing Health System. “The ACPN puts on record the feeble attempts at enlisting community pharmacists and their practices to be involved in family planning services even though the reward system for such has always been based on a loosely structured, weirdly and undefined terms in terms of a commensurate as well as a befitting benefit package to elucidate the interest of frontline health professionals in any setting.” He urged the federal ministry of health and the international NGOs to engage the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria to curb quackery in the health sector. Today as it stands, any plot or scheme to involve untrained hands in the sale and dispensing of high-grade medicines like steroidal preparations under the hypocrisy of accessibility to health or some other availability expediencies to provide unprofessionally inclined services to consumers of health will only make them more vulnerable to morbidity and mortality which of course aggravates our well known negative health indices. “A Government that seeks to redress the damage inflicted on the image of our presently rated 187 out of 191 health systems globally should know this cannot be a route to ameliorating the permanent disorders and chaos in our health care sector,” Adekola said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com