Tony Okafor, Awka The Anambra State Governor, Willie Obiano, has sacked his security aide, James Nwafor. Nwafor, who was a Senior Special Adviser to the governor on security, was relieved of his duty following allegations by #EndSARS protesters in Awka on Thursday. They alleged that Nwafor violated people’s rights during his reign as the Commander of SARS in Anambra. The protesters accused Nwafor of killing many youths in the state during his tenure in SARS. The protesters had blocked the Anambra State Government House and the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway, insisting that Obiano must address them. Addressing the protesters, Obiano said he would take their demands to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and handle the ones within his powers. He said, “I am very happy with the way you have conducted yourselves. You have conducted yourselves creditably. READ ALSO: Nigeria only African country barred from 2022 US visa lottery  “I have a list of all your demands. Some of them have already been met, like the SARS being disbanded. That has already been met, and some are still in the pipeline which I am going to present to the president. The other ones, I can handle myself. “Your first request is immediate prosecution and removal of James Nwafor, the immediate release of all protesters in police custody. Consider those ones done. “As for compensation of family of SARS victims, the Attorney General and the leadership of police will look into this and make recommendations to me. “I support your protest, police brutality and extortion are not allowed anywhere. Any police officer that does that, copy his name and let us know.” The protesters who were visibly happy about the governor’s pronouncements marched to the popular Aroma Junction, where they blocked the Expressway. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, James Eze, confirmed the sacking of Nwafor. He told The PUNCH on the telephone, “Nwafor has been relieved of his duty. It’s up to the IGP who has been vigorously pursuing reforms in the Police Force to decide how to prosecute him. “I don’t think the power to prosecute lies with the governor. He doesn’t have the power. Though he gave the assurances to prosecute him.”