Patrick Odey, Uyo Residents of Inen community in the OrukAnam Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State on Monday fled their homes as gunmen suspected to be cultists set fire to a police outpost. It was gathered that the Inen Ekeffe Police Outpost was burnt down by the cultists as reprisal against the police for resisting their operations and for arresting some of their members. A source told our correspondent that some police personnel absconded on sighting the hoodlums. According to the source, over 30 cultists blocked the community road between the Faith Tabernacle Church and the gate of the Al Madal Construction Company chanting solidarity songs before moving to burn down the police outstation. It was gathered that they snatched two motorcycles belonging to Udeme Atanong and Ndifreke Otu, and molested anyone who crossed their path as many residents, on sighting them, took cover in the bush. The source stated, “Residents, who wanted to visit their houses to obtain food items and rush back to their settlement camps in neighbouring villages, were trapped in the bush, while the hoodlums molested and maimed anybody passing on the road.” A community leader, Mr Anyanime Umoren, condemned the killings and wanton destruction of lives and property. Umoren, the Public Relations Officer of the Inen Stakeholders’ Forum, said the leaders of the community had written several letters to Governor Udom Emmanuel to restore peace in the community but to no avail However, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, SP Odiko Macdon, confirmed the incident but said that the building was an abandoned structure. “The building is a dilapidated one that was previously owned by the police as an out station office for our personnel, but was later shut down because of inadequate manpower in the force,” Macdon stated. He dismissed the incident as an ordinary inferno that gutted the abandoned building in the area, adding that everything should not be attributed to cultism. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com