THE recent move by the Federal Government to create another anti-corruption organisation, ‘Proceeds of Crime Recovery and Management Agency’, has been received with mixed feelings. It is claimed that the PCRMA will deal “specifically with asset recovery, including non-conviction asset forfeiture, which is unavailable in the asset recovery regime.” According to Abubakar Malami, the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, the recovered assets had been scattered across several agencies and that better coordination would encourage efficiency in recovering more looted assets. In 2018, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had also signed Executive Order 6, the ‘Preservation of Assets Connected with Serious Corruption and Other Related Offences.’ This seeks to sequester assets seized from persons accused of corruption. According to Buhari, the order would restrict dealings in suspicious assets subject to investigations, deny criminals of their use for illicit activities or to pervert or intimidate judicial proceedings, or be deployed for terrorism, kidnapping, economic sabotage, sponsoring of ethnic or sectarian violence and for “acts contributing to the economic adversity” of the country “and against the overall interest of justice and the welfare of the Nigerian state.” This is simply a wild goose chase. Since the Federal Executive Council approved the creation of the agency, many have, however, suspected that it is another sinister move to undermine the existing anti-graft agencies by weakening their powers. But Malami, clarifying the policy, said, “Section 4 of the Regulations retains all the powers of law enforcement and anti-corruption agencies in their extant laws as it relates to asset recovery and therefore the issue of taking over the powers of these agencies does not arise.” Already, Asset Recovery and Management operate as a unit in the AGF office. The specialised unit is responsible for the coordination of law enforcement and anti-corruption agencies in matters related to asset tracing, recovery and management. But worriers and doubters have their points. The establishment of the new agency implies creating an entirely new bureaucracy with all the paraphernalia, trappings and red tape. It is also argued that the creation of new agencies in whatever guise does not fit into the regime’s plan to implement the report of the Presidential Committee on Restructuring and Rationalisation of Federal Government Parastatals, Commissions and Agencies better known as the Oronsaye report. The Senate has weighed in, urging the government to reduce agencies as a cost-saving measure. Truly, Nigeria has a penchant for establishing multiple agencies without building institutions. In countries where similar agencies on assets recovery exist, for instance, in Ukraine and European Union member states, they play supportive roles to anti-graft agencies, especially providing effective detection of assets illicitly acquired and cooperate with the prosecuting authorities, the anti-corruption agencies and other law-enforcement agencies in nailing corruption suspects. The government cannot continue to create agencies to address every challenge when existing laws could be amended to cater to emerging issues. The danger of creating agencies arbitrarily is that it renders some others redundant. There have been instances where agencies were set up for ad hoc assignments and were supposed to have wound up on the completion of their assignments, but they did not; they have become economically parasitic and operationally dormant. It is curious that the Federal Government is not exploring the option of creating an inter-agency committee that will bring anti-corruption agencies and the AGF’s Office into a common platform and ensure that seized assets are properly managed and transparently disposed of. Nigeria already has a plethora of anti-corruption agencies: the EFCC, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, the Code of Conduct Bureau, the Nigeria Police Force’s Special Fraud Unit and other related departments. All these agencies have similar powers. What they all lack is the institutional capacity to operate independently. As they exist, all the anti-graft agencies operate at the instance of the President. But Transparency International says the independence of ACAs should be ensured in terms of the selection and appointment of leadership and staff; the law must grant ACAs extensive powers to investigate, arrest and prosecute and they must be allowed full freedom to discharge their legal mandate impartially, without interference from any quarters. TI also suggests an independent oversight mechanism to monitor ACAs’ functions and practices and adequate resources to discharge their functions. Fighting corruption does not require the existence of multiple agencies. Anti-corruption agencies can fulfil their role as effective coordination and monitoring agents only if they have a strong mandate from the centre of government and adequate resources. The United Nations Development Programme identifies two major problems with anti-graft statutes. First, the implementation of the strategy rests with multiple agencies within the government and this makes coordination extremely difficult. Anti-corruption agencies, which are expected to implement, monitor and execute policies, often do not have enough resources or power to do so. Second, among the fallacies of an anti-corruption strategy is assigning overall responsibility for implementation to a specialised body like an anti-corruption agency, without taking into account that this agency often lacks the necessary authority to demand actions from powerful line ministries. Sadly, on Buhari’s watch, corruption is still winning. His anti-graft champions are working at cross-purposes, heaping on one another weighty corruption allegations. The campaign is still devoid of public buy-in. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime said, “When anti-corruption agencies work in isolation, without broader public support, they become vulnerable to unpredictable political will. If they are to take on the powerful interests in their societies, they cannot do it alone.” There should be conscious efforts to promote transparency and accountability in the anti-graft agencies to legitimise the crusade. Unless the Buhari regime demonstrates a strong commitment to ensure that the ACAs do their jobs effectively, creating a new agency will end up creating another corruption centre and further muddling up the feeble anti-graft war. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  