Kayode Oyero The Federal Ministry of Police Affairs has been charged to thoroughly investigate allegations of human right abuses against officers of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Dingyadi, has said. “The Servicom Unit of the Ministry of Police Affairs has been mandated to work closely with Police Public Complaint Unit and Police Service Commission to thoroughly investigate cases of infraction against SARS personnel,” Dingyadi tweeted on Monday. The PUNCH had earlier reported that there was outrage across the country on Sunday over the harassment, extortion and extra-judicial killings of innocent Nigerians by operatives of the FSARS, one of the units of the Nigeria Police Force. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege; and the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, were among Nigerians who expressed dissatisfaction over the conduct of  FSARS operatives, describing it as unacceptable. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had earlier, in a swift reaction to the extra-judicial killings and harassment of innocent Nigerians, banned personnel of the FSARS from engaging in routine patrols, stop-and-search, mounting of roadblocks and traffic checks with immediate effect. [READ ALSO] 2015: Jonathan accepts Shagari son’s apology, says ‘I’ve no enemies to fight’ Briefing State House correspondents at his official residence in Abuja,  Osinbajo had said, “I am very concerned and in fact sometimes angry about what I see happening to young men and women, who are arrested, and in some cases, maimed or killed by men of the police force; in some cases, those who man tactical units of the police force such as SARS and other units. “It is completely objectionable. It is unacceptable. These are individuals who are meant to protect Nigerians. The arrest, maiming, killing of young people or of anyone at all by these individuals is completely wrong. It is unlawful. It is illegal and all those involved ought to be investigated and prosecuted.”