Joseph Olaoluwa Aviation unions have failed to reach a resolution with the management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria over a proposed strike action. The aviation unions consisting of the National Union of Air Transports Employees, Air Transport Services Senior Association of Nigeria and the Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals had on October 7 threatened to go on strike in seven days over increasing delays and staggering of salary payment. The letter jointly signed by the General Secretary of NUATE, Aba Ocheme, ATSSSAN Deputy General Secretary, Frances Akinjole, and ANAP Secretary-General, Abdul Saidu, also asked the Managing Director of the FAAN, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, to put an end to the issue of outstanding co-operatives funds, pensions, tax and allowances. However, the meeting called by FAAN on Friday failed to reach a particular outcome according to General Secretary of NUATE, Aba Ocheme, who spoke to our correspondent in a telephone interview. He said, “There is no particular outcome. We are waiting for them to see what they can do before the expiration of the ultimatum. They are trying their best to see what they can do before the expiration of the ultimatum. “There is no resolution as to say this is it. We were briefed to say they are working towards our agitations. Nothing has changed as at this moment.” He affirmed that the strike may take place if the demands are not met. General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, however, noted that the meeting went well and a meeting will be called on Monday (today) for consolidation. She said, “The meeting went well. There will be a town hall meeting on Monday to consolidate.” Meanwhile, the national unions after a Joint Action Committee meeting resolved to boycott series of meetings called by the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, to discuss the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic on the agency. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  