John Alechenu, Abuja The President General of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nwodo, has said the ongoing nationwide protests by Nigerian youths against police brutality as exemplified by the conduct of rogue officers of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, was a product of the existing political injustice in the country. Nwodo said this in a statement titled, ‘#EndSARS protest is rooted in political injustice – Nwodo, Ohanaeze PG…frowns on the targeting of Igbo businesses’, issued by his media office, on Tuesday. He also noted that the response from authorities so far had “shown that the surface scratching by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, in dissolving SARS and raising SWAT, goes far away from addressing the deep-rooted problems of policing in the country.” The Ohanaeze leader further noted that the SARS menace had also thrown a challenge to the country’s elite and government over prolonged neglect of that critical arm of the nation. Nwodo said the only viable and enduring solution to the current situation was to respond to the clarion call of the majority of Nigerians to redesign the country in such a way that could address the prevailing injustice. He said a problem like this was bound to come up when the country continually lived in denial as operating a federal structure while in truth, running a confederation in such a multi-cultural and divergent nation. Nwodo reiterated that in addition to the total overhauling of the nation’s security’s architecture, the government should as a matter of urgency initiate the process of restructuring the country as the only way of holistically tackling the basic problems on the ground. He equally condemned the targeting of some Igbo businesses particularly in Abuja by hoodlums pretending to be countering the genuine protest and warned that such wicked act would have far reaching consequences He charged the government to not only protect the lives and property of every citizen, but arrange compensation for such mindless destruction. Nwodo, however, urged the protesting youths to resist the temptation of resorting to violence. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com