The past weeks have been dark and difficult across the nation. The aftermath of the ongoing unrest happening in different parts of the country has left the entire citizenry emotionally, psychologically and for several, physically bereft. What started as a peaceful, heartfelt collective clarion call from the youth metamorphosed to national chaos and outright anarchy that resulted in various forms of criminalities. The protests, which called for the immediate halt of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force, a clamour that started in 2016, albeit with less intensity, had in the past week, seen Nigerian youths take to the streets in large numbers to express their grievances against the unit. These recent protests took place in Lagos, Abuja, Oyo, Ogun, Osun, Ondo, Anambra, Imo, Port- Harcourt, Edo, Kano, Kaduna amongst other states. However, on Tuesday, October 20th, the protests took a violent turn with reported cases of widespread savagery. Several lives were lost, property destroyed, businesses looted, and in the days that followed, many government assets and institutions were torched, particularly in Lagos State. These events have triggered a lot of reactions from not just citizens of the country here and in diaspora, but also global leaders and influencers. With the wanton destruction, many questions of restitution have been raised and people wonder -“Where do we go from here? What happens now?” The recent events have had even more dire consequences for bereaved families, the hospitalized and those with unprecedented losses in assets and investment. Seeking to ameliorate the aftermath of these tragedies would be an uphill task, nothing is ever enough, not the empathy, not intervention or relief packages. While the spirit of the protests is well intended, the ripple effects will be felt long after, portending possible financial instability in situations where ‘breadwinners’ who have lost life and/or property are the primary victims. Fortunately, this is where insurance comes to close the gap in financial losses. Individuals and businesses that have been affected by these unfortunate events and that have a Strike Riot and Civil Commotion (SRCC) extension in their cover would be in a good position to recover financially. Planning for the unexpected might seem a bit superstitious in these climes, but has long proven to be a meaningful solution to facing the future a bit more equipped, should the unexpected occur. Planning for the unexpected gives the needed confidence that, come what may, you, your loved ones and assets are covered from financial losses, where this kind of sporadic destruction occurs. This is where insurance comes in and this is where we have been providing succour to the insuring public in the last 50 years of the company’s existence, with indelible footprints in the sand of time. Insurance provides an opportunity for normalcy during and after a “storm”. The insured who had their vehicles or property destroyed or their houses burnt can be assured of restitution as long their policies extend to include SRCC. Also, the insured who gets injured in the process is protected by their personal accident policy as long as the policy extends to include SRCC extension (subject to policy terms and conditions). As we know, unfortunately, lives also were lost. If these victims had valid life insurance, it would be a legacy left for their family and loved ones. All these serve to affirm insurance, as a shoulder to lean on in the event of uncertainties, BEFORE the events happen. Our heart goes out to families who have lost their loved ones these past weeks, and everyone who has lost their valuables one way or the other. As the dark clouds over the country slowly give way, our earnest desire for a prosperous, safe, and united Nigeria must be carefully guarded by all and sundry. With civility and mutual concern for one another, Nigeria will emerge victorious, as always, our resilience will prevail. If you are one of our policyholders and have been affected by this civil unrest, we enjoin you to reach out to our customer service executives via our virtual communication channels; telephone – 012800700, our social media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from an experienced insurance advisor by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me