adeoyewole2000@yahoo.com The #EndSARS is a decentralised social movement against the police brutality in Nigeria. The slogan calls for an end to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad; a controversial unit of the Nigerian police with a long record of abuses. The protest started in 2017 as a Twitter campaign to demand the Nigerian government to eliminate the squad which got revitalised this October and now parades over 28 million tweets to the hashtag according to Wikipedia. A 2020 amnesty international publication included that between January 2017 and May 2020, they had documented 82 cases of abuses and extrajudicial killings.Within a few days of reviewed protests, the Nigerian police force announced it had dissolved SARS on October 11, 2020. Despite this, protests continued and in the last few days, it got hijacked associated with looting, arson and killings. A few explanations from the mental health perspective will be useful going forward Anger and hunger The protesters, predominantly youths are angry and hungry traceable to high rates of unemployment without any means of income, still dependent on their parents who may be retired without being paid their pension and gratuity or businesses not doing well.  The COVID-19 pandemic lockdown may also have triggered the tension with perpetual anger directed against a system perceived not to care about their livelihood.  When a man is angry and hungry, and the object of his anger is diffuse without any coordinated palliative  feedback,  reactions  may come without basic  rationality as the focus of attack may not only be the state  but her appendages. Bleak future Young people are full of mental and emotional energy. Jean Piaget describes this phase as characterised by Hypothetico-Decuctive-Reasoning, hence, loaded with enormous intellectual, business and political ideas which may get frustrated by lack of enabling environment to actualise their ideas. This energy when unguided find expressions in cybercrimes otherwise called yahoo-yahoo while their female counterparts take to the ‘aristo runs’ as a means of survival. These expressions were actually the main target of the SARS unit through the use of force rather than creative rehabilitation and engagement. Abuse of psychoactive substances As a consequence of the perception, a bleak future coupled with the financial incapability of their parents to support them and the absence of coordinated support from the government, a good number of them take to mind-altering substances to escape the reality of their predicament and medicate their depression.  A good number may come down with frank mental illness and other maladaptive behaviour which could damage their physical health and make them have issues with the law enforcement agents. Hoodlums and miscreants There is an attempt to classify our youths especially following the massive protests that got into looting of private properties. While the initial protest was quite engaging, focused and tweet monitored which is reflective of some privilege possibly from struggling middle class background. There is another group from a poorer, less privileged background who may not be able to tweet or operate a computer but has been possibly used sometimes as a political thug as a means of survival described as the hoodlums or miscreants and may be responsible for the looting of private individual properties but they are both product of the cumulative years of leadership failure with attendant mental frustration expressed differently. Corrupt leadership Successive governments whether military or democratic have not sufficiently demonstrated transparent and empathetic leadership. These young ones find it difficult to explain away the bogus emoluments and privileges of our political leaders and their sense of entitlement compared to those of their hardworking parents who may not get their pension before they die. Youth empowerment, job creation has become mere rhetoric and painfully enough some of these youths may at one time or the other be in contact with the children of our leaders. This apparently is a serious trigger for violent protests involving looting by some of the youths who may have been employed as political thugs now left without any means of survival. The institution of governance does not inspire hope in them to connect to the nation. What can we do? Parents should endeavour to instil and model the values of hard work, contentment and perseverance. The family should be planned and some practical attainable plans of empowerment to be put in place. Vocations intelligently chosen to match their endowments and mental health challenge promptly reported. Religious organisations They have a crucial role to play in restoring hope to the hopeless young people, motivating rather than taking advantage of them, stepping into the failures of parenting through creative mentorship and programmes. This may protect against drug abuse as they are intellectually and emotionally engaged through spiritual guidance. Educational institutions Our curriculum should be vocationally inclined as certificates are no longer guarantees for employment. Psychological assessments should be done for career placement and mentorship and entrepreneurial studies should be entrenched. The code of ethics worked out with the students and zero tolerance for drug abuse. Business organisations Internships and entrepreneurial programmes even with stipends can become mandatory for a few of our business organisations. Lessons learnt from the protest reveal that the business organisations that contribute to their environments were protected including housing estates Government The ministry of youth, social welfare and sports should be expanded and invigorated in all the states. It should not just be about sports alone but a multidisciplinary approach to capture the issues raised. There is an urgent need to create a dialogue with our youths and be sincere with them as we negotiate with them about what is possible. No programme should be implemented without their inputs. Their suggestions about governance should also be taken into consideration. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com