Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja The Federal Government has directed civil servants on Grade Level 10 and below to resume duty with effect from Monday. It, however, said no worker would be allowed entry into any government offices without face masks. The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, gave the directive in a circular dated October 16, 2020. The circular, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent on Friday, was titled ‘Resumption of officers on Grade Level 10 and below’ and was addressed to permanent secretaries and heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies among others. Since the lockdown declared by the Federal Government to curtail the further spread of COVID-19, only civil servants on Grade Level 12 and above as well as those on essential duties have been going to work. But the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 had on Thursday announced another phase of eased lockdown in which it said all civil servants were free to resume. Folasade-Esan, in the circular, however, directed that apart from the compulsory use of face masks, efforts should be made by MDAs to avoid overcrowding in offices. She asked that the civil servants should be in their offices every working day from 8am to 4pm. The circular read, “Following Mr President’s approval of the recommendations of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, officers on Grade Level 10 and below are hereby directed to resume duty every working day (Monday to Friday) with effect from Monday, October 19, 2020. “Also, the officers are to be in the office by 8am and close by 4pm daily. In resuming work daily, the officers are to ensure full compliance with the directives and advice on the COVID-19 pandemic preventive measures, including the maintenance of physical distancing, regular washing and/or sanitising of hands, and wearing of face masks. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com