Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Ade Ajayi, on Wednesday said the suspension of the Presidential Political Adviser, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, and 10 others was still in force. Ajayi said the party’s national body only declared the “purported” suspension by the Ojudu group of the governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and members of the Paul Omotoso-led State Executive Council a nullity. Ajayi said this in a telephone interview with our correspondent, in Ado Ekiti. He said, “Let me clarify here, it was only the suspension the illegal body imposed on Governor Fayemi that was nullified and not the one that was carried out by the state disciplinary committee. “Don’t forget that there is a proviso in what the national APC said concerning the lifting of the suspension. The national body said it had not received the report of the disciplinary committee set up by the authentic APC in Ekiti as at when the pronouncement was made. “But as I speak with you, the national body has received the report. It was as a result of the disobedience to the directive of the National Executive Committee and President Muhammadu Buhari that all cases be withdrawn from courts that we set up the disciplinary committee.” The Ekiti APC had, based on a report of the Sola Ajigbolamu-led disciplinary committee, on Thursday last week, suspended Ojudu and 10 others from the party. On Friday, Ojudu’s group in response suspended Fayemi and the state party executive. Sequel to the face-off, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena, in a statement titled “Disclaimer: Governor Fayemi, Others’ Purported ‘Suspension’ a Nullity – APC,” on Friday said the party had yet to receive any communication to the effect of the actions, declaring the actions taken by the feuding factions of the party as a nullity. In a bid to douse tension, the party’s Caretaker/Extra Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee on Monday set up the Governor Nasir El-Rufai-led Reconciliation Committee with a specific mandate to reconcile the warring party members in the state. In response to the setting up of the committee, Ajayi said on Wednesday that, “There are two different issues; they are distinct and I don’t think there is any conflict between what the two committees by the national and state are to do. “The Jide Awe-led committee submitted its report on Tuesday, September 29. We are confident that the committee set up by the national will act on its recommendations. “Don’t forget that the aggrieved people were provided the opportunities, but they refused to appear before the disciplinary and reconciliation committees set up by the party. It has always been our wish that we remain one family.” When contacted, Ojudu said his group would “react appropriately at the right time.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 