Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki Speculations that the Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, has dumped the Peoples Democratic Party for the ruling All Progressives Congress may likely be confirmed this week. On Saturday, speculations were rife that Umahi had moved to the APC even though he and his media aide denied the move. The member representing the Ezza South/Ikwo Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Chinedu Ogah, on Saturday, confirmed to our correspondent that Umahi had joined the APC and charged anyone doubting the information to quote him anywhere and at anytime. He had said, “Yes, Governor Umahi’s defection to our great party, the APC, is a step in the right direction. We cannot afford to remain in opposition. We must join the ruling party to continue to reap the dividends of democracy. “I am calling on other governors in the South-East to toe the line of Governor Umahi and join the APC. We have to be at the centre; we have to join mainstream politics for the overall development of our zone and the country in general. “President Muhammadu Buhari has done well. Everybody should join the APC to encourage him.” Rumours of Umahi’s defection to the APC were rife after he was said to have held a series meetings with several leaders of the APC, including the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday. Also, a source in the Presidency, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said Umahi’s defection had been concluded and a document to that effect had been taken and filed at the “Blue Room” in Aso Rock. The source described the “Blue Room” as a special room in Aso Rock, where any document or item kept therein was regarded as sacrosanct and regarded as being of utmost importance by the Presidency. It was also gathered that the governor, on arrival from Abuja, where he had spent close to two weeks, on Saturday held a crucial meeting with all the 13 local government area chairmen and communicated the seeming move to them. The council bosses might likely move to the ruling party with the governor, The PUNCH learnt. A member of the APC and spokesman of Alaigbo Development Foundation, Chief Abia Onyike, also said the defection of Umahi was very true. Onyike stated, “Governor Umahi’s defection is very true. With the influence of people like Senator Obinna Ogba and the other National Assembly members, he appears uncomfortable in the PDP as the party can no longer give him the edge he enjoyed ab initio. That was fallout of the state congress boycotted by the Abuja group, which petitioned the national leadership of the party. So, he had no option but to look elsewhere. “The PDP is no longer ready to allow him to produce the National Vice Chairman of the party in the yet to be organised zonal congress. He wants to be in the APC to pursue his presidential ambition.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 