Jesusegun Alagbe Thousands of #EndSARS protesters gathered on Friday night to hold a candlelight session for the various victims of SARS/police killings at Lekki, Lagos Island. Similar candlelight sessions held at Alausa, Lagos and other cities like Port Harcourt, Ibadan, Abuja, and Yenagoa. In a sombre mood, the protesters mourned the victims – who they described as “fallen heroes.” On Friday night, the hashtag #FallenHeroes was among the most trended keywords on Twitter. Some of the names of the victims of SARS/police killings were called at the session. They were Jimoh Isiaq, who was killed last Sunday by a stray bullet during a #EndSARS protest in Ogbomoso, Oyo State. Other victims honoured at the event were Kolade Johnson, Daniel Chibuike (aka Sleek), Ayomide Taiwo, Peter Ofurum, Chika Ibeku, Chibuike Anams, Ifeoma Abugu, Christian Onuigbo, Emmanuel Egbo, and Victor Maduamago. Others were Chidi Odinauwa, Stephen Agbanyim, Tony Oruama, Tiamiyu Kazeem, Mus’ab Sammani, Onovo Matthew, Chinedu Ani, Precious Odua, Richard Gora, and Chijioke Iloanya. Also honoured were Linda Igwetu, Daniel Tella, Harry Ataria, Johnson Nnaemeka, Femi Bello, Chima Ikwunado, Godgift Ekerete, Gabriel Owoicho, Tina Ezekwe, Modebayo Awosika, Daniel Adewuyi, Chukwuemeka Matthew, Chika Ibeku, Azuamak Maduemago, and Rinji Bala Uzziel. Others were Joseph Ugbeni, Anita Akapson, Chibuike Ikeaguchi, Ifeanyi Ozor, Chinedu Meniru, Augustina Arebu, Anthony Nwokike, Paulinus Ogbonna, Ekena Megbe, Emeka Ojinze, Ademola Moshood, Ismaila Ayinla, and Joy Ndubueze. Also honoured were victims simply named as Miracle and Sunday. Protesters at the candlelight sessions – which featured instrumentals – also held placards bearing inscriptions such as ‘End SARS,’ chanting the same words. A musician, Peter Okoye, tweeted, “Candlelight for our #EndPoliceBrutality fallen heroes! God bless their souls! We move!” @SAMKLEF also tweeted, “Heal naija and make it a better place.   May all our fallen heroes keep resting in peace.” Also, @iAmNiyiola wrote, “RIP to our fallen heroes. Tonight and always we celebrate you. #EndsSARSNOW.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com