Friday Olokor, Abuja The Pentecostal Power Revival Ministry in Karu area has raised the alarm over the danger posed by the closeness of an electricity substation belonging to Abuja Electricity Distribution Company to its building. The PPRM demanded its relocation by the authorities of the Federal Capital Territory Administration to another area to save its congregation from a looming danger. The PUNCH correspondent who visited the church reported that it was sandwiched between an electricity substation. Our correspondent sighted a copy of the FCT High Court judgment delivered by Justice Sylvanus Orji, directing the FCTA to relocate the church from its present location in Karu, Abuja to somewhere else within the Karu vicinity. The court had ruled that due to overriding public interest, the church should be relocated to give way for erection of electricity substation being built under a World Bank assistance. The General Overseer of PPRM, Pastor Evelyn Tete, said the church had existed legally at the place before the FCTA decided to locate the electricity substation there. She lamented that the grave of her husband who died struggling to salvage the church premises was now below one the high tension wires. Tete said that the church had earlier dragged the then Power Holding Company of Nigeria to an FCT High Court in a suit: FCT/HC/CV/800/2009. She said the court ordered that the church should be provided with an alternative place and adequately compensated. According to her, for seven years, the church had waited to be relocated, putting the lives of worshipers to dangers of possible electrocution and radiation from the substation. “It is not that we are not making efforts but each time we tried to reach out to the relevant authorities, it will not yield any positive result and that is how it has now got to seven years,” she said. The church had approach the court in 2013 to seek for justice regarding the move by the defunct PHCN to forcefully take over its land located in Karu, Abuja, for the purpose of building a new power facility within. Lawyer to the church, Kenneth Ezeibekwe, said the AEDC wrote a letter in 2015 to remind the FCT Administration that it had been two years after the judgement but nothing has been done since then. He said the lives of worshippers in the church were at risk because of the proximity of the church building and others to the power facilities. The letter clearly reminded the FCT Administration about the dangers posed to the worshippers of the plaintiff’s church which is only 10 meters away from 132KV power switch yard and less than two meters away from a 33KV, he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  