Dr. Sylvester Ikhisemojie This essay is based on an integrated approach to ensuring the optimum development of the child as a whole whereby adequate attention is paid to the various aspects of a child’s development that will promote good health. The most essential thing we need to be aware of is that good health as defined by the World Health Organisation is a status of the body in which the physical development, social integration and mental equilibrium of a child are guaranteed by the steps we take in educating and caring for them. There must also be an absence of disease and infirmity: These areas of a child’s growth that demand our attention must seek to maintain health and wellbeing from preconception to adulthood. In other words, we are talking here about the comprehensive care of an individual from conception to the grave. However, as we have titled this after the whole child, the emphasis here will be on healthcare and should rather be limited to the time from life in the womb until the age of 15 – 18 years depending in the end on what the various governments can agree represents a child. Thus, the child is protected from the time of conception, to delivery, early infancy, childhood and adolescence. The mind, the emotional development and the spiritual growth of such a child will be ensured when they are engaged in age appropriate activities that help to build character, resilience and cooperative associations. Children will need to be engaged in religious activities that promote self reliance, accountability and empathy. Other programmes that will be implemented include organised youth sporting activities; culturally aware and sensitive instructions and teachings. Moral instruction, civic education and history must form a robust part of this effort. Children must at a young age be taught where they have come from and where they are going as well as what they are expected to do in between. As we have seen above, education and a sense of community are of utmost importance in the raising of healthy children. Therefore, working with and engaging the schools and entire communities to promote child safety, wellbeing and education are absolutely important in this pursuit. These are not tall orders because this country has done all of these things before. Somewhere along the line, the culture of impunity facilitated and propagated by those who found themselves in the wrong offices and possessed little understanding of these issues derailed the progressive development of the nation’s children with the result that public and mission schools which many of them attended gave way to commercial educators who brought on more spectacle and less knowledge. The sad result of these falling standards is that Nigeria continues to have one of the highest under-five death rates in the world at 117.2 per 1000 live births. And even though trends have thankfully been on a decline worldwide, the rate of loss in Nigeria continues to be an impediment to national growth. Sick children financially and emotionally strain entire families and keeping their working mothers away from work while their fathers may also be away or become less productive. In the meantime, other children in the home become more prone to less care and injury and the risk of further hospitalisation. The top leading causes of death in this age group include pneumonia, diarrheal diseases and malaria. These are conditions that can largely be prevented and/or treated at the primary care level. Moreover with a 13 per cent immunisation rate between 12-23 months, Nigeria remains one of the African countries with the lowest immunisation rate, probably because much of our population reside in rural and difficult to access locations. Much as the cellular phones have revolutionised the banking industry, solar and wind energy used to power a telehealth medicine initiative, can bring about the revolutionisation of the healthcare industry in the country as a whole. Sadly, entrenched interests have often threatened volunteers from outside the country willing to sacrifice their time and resources to start similar pilot schemes have either been threatened with physical violence or their parents left in the villages have received such threats. With the advancement in the availability of solar and wind energy, basic care provision can be enhanced especially in our more rural communities where access to healthcare providers remains a challenge. As there are boreholes that have been sunk in various communities powered by solar energy, refrigerators that are similarly powered are available these days. When these and similar provisions are adopted to enhance and promote good health practices the outlook for Nigerian children will dramatically improve. This is a strategy which was adopted in Israel and Bangladesh with stunning results and it went to demonstrate that even a poor, Third World nation like Bangladesh can greatly improve the outlook for its children without committing billions of United States dollars to such an effort. The mass vaccination campaigns on the ground can be enhanced by coordinating and reporting childhood immunisations into a village, town and city coordinated registry. Over time, a Nationwide Vaccination Registry can be instituted where dedicated staff will simply have to collate figures from everywhere in the country.  Subsequently, this data can be mined for a more targeted and effective immunisation campaign. Detection and Treatment of Childhood Diseases can improve also with the implementation of tele-health services. Improved access to providers can be maintained to complement and augment existing established healthcare centres. These Primary Care Facilities first made strategic during the period of Professor Olikoye Ransome-Kuti will cater to the aforementioned childhood illnesses in a timely manner, thereby forestalling complications and decreasing mortality. Provision of state funded and run pre-school/kindergarten facilities is of paramount importance because for the same reasons that have been canvassed above. They will provide a safe learning environment. They will also provide meals and essential nutrients needed for proper growth and development. The current administration has begun something with school feeding tailored in that direction but there is no consideration for the kindergarten sector which has been left almost entirely in the hands of private educators who almost always put commerce before substance. The additional advantages of such government involvement in such schemes will offer an opportunity to improve and monitor immunisation rates. This can be achieved by making acceptance and attendance in learning centres contingent upon adequate childhood immunisation which can be proven by means of a well card. In addition, it will afford parents and caretakers the opportunity to engage with the workforce. Play is essential to the development of the child. Secure facilities can be provided to children and their families with the introduction and participation in various sporting activities such as Track and Field sports, Football (Soccer), Volleyball, Basketball, Swimming and a host of others. Cultural Centres that promote the participation in the learning about all kinds of cultures from around the country should be made a part of the learning environment. Introduction to various disciplines like woodcarving, pottery, furniture making, painting, cooking, hair braiding/weaving and baking should be added to complete the well-rounded student.  Computer coding and programming courses are new concepts that can occupy the fertile minds of youngsters and should be included in the curriculum. These will not all be accomplished overnight but they can be done in a few years. This nation has the manpower and the land space. Some of the structures are in place in many places. Only the will must be summoned to make it happen. So let us begin. Dear doctor, thanks for all you do. Sometimes, I get horrific pains when I delay in having breakfast and then when I take some food, I clutch at my stomach for a minute or more. What can this be?   0816xxxxxxx It is not a disease condition to have such pains. I am sure you have heard people talking about hunger pangs before and this is exactly what it is when the muscles of the stomach are actually churning against each other. Now, putting food into your mouth when you have already reached that level of discomfort does not mean that the pain will go away instantly; and so it persists for some time before it disappears. That is what is going on with you. Dear doctor, thank you for the good work you do. May the Lord continue to help you. I have a friend of 17 who is battling with eczema. What can she use for her eczema? I am awaiting your answer please.  0704xxxxxxx Well, the fact that you have called it eczema does not mean that is what it is. I would advise you to see a doctor for examination and you can then get a prescription from them. Many skin diseases look alike but each one has certain characteristics that differentiate it from the others and only the person who has been trained in detecting those differences can tell you what it is. That is why you need to see a doctor. Dear doctor, as you enlighten us weekly, may God grant you more unction to function. Please what could account for a sister’s craving for uncooked salt at 56 years? And what are the medical implications as spoonfuls are consumed as she cooks daily. She has not reached menopause. I am grateful indeed for your time. 0803xxxxxxx Thank you very much as well. At 56 years, she is within the age spectrum for attaining menopause and it will come calling soon enough. People with higher levels of sodium in their blood, which is the main component of salt, also tend to release less levels of cortisol into their system. Cortisol is also known as the stress hormone and it is the most important substance that does this work. So if your sister takes such large doses of salt, it may be her own way of dealing with such stress. However, a lot of salt in the body puts her at increased risk for developing high blood pressure and for making it more difficult to control if she is already on treatment for it. It can also cause her to retain body water especially in the legs and increase her potential for gaining weight. Dear doctor, I read about your health article in Sunday PUNCH. For about a year plus now, I have discovered that saliva used to build up on my tongue anytime I am talking and it is embarrassing to me. I want you to help me out to stop the buildup of saliva. I need that help urgently. I will be glad indeed if you could tell me the steps to take. Thank you so much.  0808xxxxxxx Excess saliva in your mouth can be caused by diseases of the salivary glands or pregnancy. It can also be caused by allergic conditions or gastric reflux. In order to determine which one of these is the possible culprit, you will need to visit a doctor for proper examination and necessary advice. Dear doctor, what could cause a 60-year-old man who has a well controlled blood pressure to previously be able to penetrate his wife to now lose that ability after just three thrusts? What is loss of sensitivity or sensation and what is the cure for it? Thank you. 09099xxxxxxx Well, some factors within your body can explain all these. The first is your age and the second is the fact that you have high blood pressure. Whether that is controlled or not, some damage can still result. Such damage may be from the condition or from the drug that you use. See your doctor for a further exploration of this problem and they should be able to provide you with the necessary remedy. Dear doctor, I saw your number in Sunday PUNCH  and feel that you can help me. Doctor, from your explanations in the newspaper, I think I have an infection. There is pain in my bladder and abdomen and I cannot even touch my testes. There is back pain too and sometimes when I urinate, I pass out sperm in small quantities. I do not pass out stool the way I should because of pain in the anus like amoebic dysentery. I find it difficult to recall things now with ease and I think all of this is because of masturbation. I masturbate frequently nowadays which disgusts me so much but I also hate sex because it causes me pain. I couldn’t tell my family doctor or anyone because of shame and I am dying with living in guilt. What should I do doctor? I need your help and your prescription. 00703xxxxxxx This is rather straightforward. If you hate sex, do not engage in it. If you hate masturbation, the same thing applies. What you are saying here is that you hate eating boiled eggs but you go ahead to eat them and begin to regret. Life is not like that; if you dislike something, stop doing it. As for the pains you feel in both your abdomen and your anus, you will need to do the relevant tests on your urine, semen and stool. You may also require to have a scan done. But see a doctor, not necessarily your family doctor with these complaints and have the tests done. Then treatment can follow and you will get well again. Dear doctor, I think diabetes leads to kidney disease. Dialysis is painful. I don’t think patients make it through dialysis. Thanks and have a nice day. 0806xxxxxxx Diabetes does not always lead to kidney failure. That can only happen when there is poor control of diabetes over a long time, usually a span of several years. When kidney failure occurs, it may be acute or chronic and it may be end-stage. It is the end-stage kidney failure that usually needs dialysis and at this point of course, life itself is ebbing away from the person and dialysis is often offered for two reasons: the first reason is to improve the quality of life in the evening of the person’s existence. The second reason is to maintain life to the extent that a kidney transplant can be offered should a donor become available. This part is critical because there is a level of fitness required for any operation, a kidney transplant not excepted and regular dialysis in that situation not only preserves life but ensures that at the time of the dialysis, the person is fit enough for that operation. Dialysis, therefore, has several objectives and it is not painful. It can also be survived. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 