What is sepsis? Septicaemia is an infection; it is a medical condition in which there are a lot of bacteria in the blood multiplying rapidly. The concentration of bacteria in the blood during this condition is so much more than what normally occurs and that is a potentially fatal situation, if not tackled quickly. Normally, bacteria get into the blood of humans from various activities like brushing of the teeth and through the skin, intestines and various parts of the body. Some of these can get into the blood from time to time. Sometimes, the urine may get contaminated with a bit of bacteria, which normally is not significant. Such bacteria may also get into the blood. The body immune system, when intact, would normally kill the bacteria off, so the person does not get sick. Sometimes, at the extreme, the person may feel a bit warm and sick; then the body takes care of it and the person is okay. Sometimes, poor nutrition and some other causes may compromise the immune system. If, during that period, bacteria get into the blood, the immune system may not clear the bacteria efficiently hence, septicaemia may occur. At times if there is a part of the body that is heavily infected in what can be termed local infection, the barrier to the blood circulation may break down and septicaemia may result. Otherwise, ordinarily, the bacteria that get into the blood are wiped out by the immune system and septicaemia does not occur. What are the symptoms of sepsis? The person can have a fever, headache and nausea. The person may be vomiting, feel sick, and with time, some parts of the body can start swelling. With time, since it is a generalised infection of the body system, any part of the body is affected, such part may function less than it should, and generally, the body does not function well. It becomes very serious, either because it is not treated on time, the person is immunocompromised, or the antibiotic treatment is not adequate for various reasons. If it becomes worse – a part of the body can fail, pus can ooze out of the orifices, the temperature becomes higher and the person can die very quickly. When you take the temperature of the person, it will be high. There is a specific pattern that suggests to you that this person has septicaemia, for example, and not malaria fever, because that can also cause fever, or fever from some other causes. Who is most at risk of developing sepsis? One, someone that is immunocompromised. Two, newborn babies and younger children, because their immune system is not so well developed. So, if they have any situation where they have bacteria more than what they can normally cope with, they can easily develop septicaemia. Three, the elderly – their immune system is not as active as that of adults. Also, if a part of the body has local infection, it can develop into septicaemia because the bacteria can get into the blood and that is why when people have local infections, it is necessary to quickly access medical care. Then, in a population where they abuse drugs used in treating bacterial infection, if they misuse the drugs, after sometime, the bacteria in that community will develop resistance. And once they develop resistance to the common antibacterial agents, if someone then has a bacterial infection and they place the person on a drug, it will not function as it should. So, the bacteria multiply very rapidly, and the local infections, for example, will not be controlled easily and it will get into the blood. Also, those that are under stress, these include people who do not rest enough or someone that is overtly exposed to cold weather at degrees which stress the body. Such persons can develop bacterial infection and septicaemia because their immune system won’t function optimally. Also, when people have some local infections, they can also be prone. For example, if someone has a urinary tract infection and it is not treated on time or not treated adequately, it can become septicaemia because the bacteria multiply so much there and get into the blood. Those people are prone. How is sepsis treated? People with septicaemia have to see their physicians. It is very important. The physician will take adequate history and do adequate examination to be sure of what is happening and the extent. And then, ideally, we take a sample and send it to the laboratory. Ideally, when the results are out, the doctor will know the most appropriate antibacterial drugs to place the patient on. Usually we would take the sample before the patient commences antibacterial. That is why patients should not take antibiotics before visiting their doctors. When you take a sample, you can’t wait for the result, especially the culture and sensitivity, because all the results may not come back until after some days. You can’t wait to have that, so we place the patient on empirical treatment. That is, you know the most likely antibacterial agent that would be responsible for that kind of infection. And by the time results are obtained, if you need to adjust the antibacterial in any way, you do that. If you don’t do that, the patient’s condition will keep getting worse and there may be fatality. So, when the results are got, quite a number of times, it will prove your treatment right. But sometimes, you may need to adjust your antibacterial choice. One common thing is that you may give an additional antibacterial (drug). Quite a number of times, even before the results are obtained, you will see improvement in the patient. Some patients may need intravenous drips. Then there are what we call adjuncts to the treatment, they may need to give something to control the temperature, though you don’t want to mask the fever because as you treat and the patient is getting better, you will even see the pattern of the fall of the peak temperature, which will also confirm that the patient is getting better. Is there a diet that prevents sepsis? Maybe you could say that if someone feeds well, with plenty of fruits and vegetables, this may help boost the immune system. So, even if the person suffers sepsis, the immune system will be able to respond more adequately if they are eating a lot of fruits and vegetables. How often do you come across cases of sepsis? It is something we come across in this environment but how often is something I won’t be able to say now. I would say it is often, but one has to be sure it is sepsis and not, for example, malaria, viral fever or vice versa because they present with feverish symptoms. So, it is something one should watch out for when treating any patient with fever in this environment. Watch out for malaria, viral infection and sepsis. Have it at the back of your mind when a patient presents with fever. If you don’t, and if, for example, it is a viral infection, and you give antibacterial, you are wasting time and resources and so on. Many times, though there is a local infection, there is also septicaemia because the bacteria in the local infection have got into the blood. So, when you’re treating, the antibacterial you usually give will cover it. Sometimes, you have to give what we call parenteral therapy, that is, you administer the drug into the blood. But these days, there are some heavy oral antibacterial drugs that will, to some extent, act on such infections. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  