Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a notorious cultist, identified simply as Bobo, for the killing of a mechanic, Salaudeen Lawal. The suspect was arrested 24 hours after he was declared wanted by the police over the murder of Lawal in Igbesa, in the Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state. Bobo’s arrest also happened shortly after a 19-year-old accomplice in the murder of the mechanic, Babatunde Idris, was nabbed. He was reportedly traced to his hideout at Surulere in Lagos State by detectives, led by the Igbesa Divisional Police Officer, SP Abayomi Adeniji. The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the development in a statement on Tuesday. Oyeyemi recalled that the suspect attacked the deceased, who was contracted to repair a faulty car in Igbesa, on Sunday. Bobo was alleged to have accused the victim of blocking the road with the vehicle. The PPRO added that during the argument, the suspect stabbed Lawal with a broken bottle in the hand, thereby cutting his veins. According to the PPRO, the victim was rushed to a hospital where he died. Oyeyemi said, “The Commissioner of Police, Edward  Ajogun, there and then gave a marching order to the DPO Igbesa to fish out the culprit, who is notorious in the area as a member of a dreaded cult. “In compliance with the CP’s directive, the DPO and his detectives embarked on intelligence and technical based investigation which led them to the Surulere area in Lagos State where the suspect was hibernating and subsequently got him arrested. He has made confessional statements owing up to the crime.” Oyeyemi said the suspect had been transferred to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com