Friday Olokor, Leke Baiyewu and Oladimeji Ramon The national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has congratulated the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on his re-election for a second term of four years. In a congratulatory message personally signed by him, Tinubu attributed Akeredolu’s victory at the last Saturday poll to the recent reconciliatory efforts, resulting in unity among stakeholders in the ruling APC. He urged Akeredolu to reward the people of Ondo State for his re-election by improving on his first-term achievements. Tinubu said, “I congratulate Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) for his well-deserved re-election as governor of Ondo State. This victory in a peaceful, free, and fair process is a testament to Governor Akeredolu’s sterling first-term performance and an affirmation of the confidence reposed in him by the people of Ondo. “In his first term, Governor Akeredolu erected important structures, embarked upon road infrastructure and focused on projects like the Ore Industrial Hub, in a bid to create empowerment and employment for the people. It is now incumbent on him to repay the people’s faith by building on the achievements of his first term and bringing further tangible improvement to the lives of the people of his state.” Tinubu also congratulated the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); all the APC governors, and in particular, the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who served as the Chairman of the APC National Campaign Council for the Ondo State Governorship Election. Repay Ondo with good governance, Abdulsalami urges Akeredolu In the same vein, a former Head of State and Chairman of the National Peace Committee, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, also congratulated Akeredolu on his re-election. In a statement he personally signed on Monday, Abubakar, on behalf of the NPC, urged Akeredolu to “repay the amiable people of Ondo State with all the ingredients of good governance, justice and equity.” He said, “Through the expression of your exemplary sacrifice, decorum, and courage, you played your part in deepening the culture of peaceful elections in Nigeria. You have once again showed Nigerians that your votes count, irrespective of the earlier fears, uncertainty, tensions and anxiety that preceded the election. Nigerians appreciate your conduct and display of patriotism, which is worthy of emulation.” The ex-military leader equally commended the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, and the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, for the success of the governorship poll. Gbajabiamila, Wase greet Akeredolu, hail Sanwo-Olu Similarly, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase, congratulated Akeredolu on his re-election. Gbajabiamila, in a statement on Monday by his media aide, Lanre Lasisi, said Akeredolu’s victory showed that the governor and the APC had wide acceptance among the people of Ondo. He also commended Sanwo-Olu for selling Akeredolu’s achievements to the people “through his strategic implementation of the party’s campaign programme.” On his part, Wase, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Puma, described Akeredolu’s victory as a reward for his excellent performance. “Your resounding victory at the poll is a testimony to the fact that you have kept faith with your campaign promises,” Wase said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 