ALEXANDER OKERE The deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2018 Ekiti State governorship election, Deji Ogunsakin, has condemned the recent  attack on former Governor Ayo Fayose at the party’s rally in Akure, Ondo State. The attack, which has been roundly condemned by well-meaning Nigerians across the country and beyond, saw an unidentified man, believed to be a loyalist of a South-West politician, remove the cap of the former governor while mouthing various threats at the party’s governorship rally in Akure on Wednesday. But Ogunsakin, in a statement on Saturday titled ‘Attack on Fayose: Don’t Set the South-West on Fire,’ described the attack on Fayose as an affront to Ekiti people and an invitation to anarchy within the party in the South-West. He said Fayose had done much for the stability of the party and, therefore, did not deserve the kind of treatment he received. He stated, “If not for people like His Excellency (Fayose), many young people who are gradually becoming the face of the party would not be anywhere near the party much less politics. “My boss has mentored and given many young people in Ekiti State and beyond a wing to fly and they will not fold their arms and watch some unscrupulous individuals within the party to rubbish his personality and the legacies he worked so hard over the years to build.” While calling on the leadership of the PDP to caution mischief-makers and take steps to avert a recurrence, Ogunsakin said it was pertinent to equally ensure that the perpetrators were brought to book to serve as a deterrent to individuals with “such barbaric intention”. The former Ado-Ekiti Local Government Area chairman  appealed to the youth of Ekiti State, especially those loyal to the PDP, to remain calm. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com