Olalekan Adetayo, Eniola Akinkuotu, John Alechenu, Chukwudi Akasike, Sunday Aborisade, Adelani Adepegba, Leke Baiyewu, Dayo Ojerinde, Matthew Ochei, Adeyinka Adedipe and  Enyioha Opara The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Monday said Sunday’s   disbanding of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force was the beginning of his regime’s elaborate plan towards extensive police reforms. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President spoke at the inauguration of the Presidential Youth Empowerment Scheme, aimed at creating 774,000 jobs across the local government areas in the country. In the statement titled, ‘President Buhari: Disbanding of SARS first step to extensive reforms,’ Buhari stated that bad eggs in the police would not be allowed to tarnish the image of the force. It  quoted the President as also saying that officials of the disbanded team found to be responsible for wrongful acts would be brought to justice. But the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, its presidential candidate in 2019, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar,  and some civil rights groups called for the overhaul of the police. Recall that the shooting of a young man in Ughelli, Delta State a few  weeks ago by SARS officials sparked nationwide protests by youths calling for the disbandment of the police squad. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, on Sunday bowed to pressure by disbanding the squad. But on Monday, the protesters, who continued their protests, asked the President to issue a presidential executive order banning SARS. However, the President spoke on the issue  on Monday. He said he had ordered a probe into the killing of a young man in Oyo State Buhari said, “The disbanding of SARS is only the first step in our commitment to extensive police reforms in order to ensure that the primary duty of the police and other law enforcement agencies remains the protection of lives and livelihood of our people. “We will also ensure that all those responsible for misconduct or wrongful acts are brought to justice. “We deeply regret the loss of life of the young man in Oyo State during the recent demonstrations. I have directed that the circumstances of his death should be thoroughly investigated. “Meanwhile, it is important to recognise that the vast majority of men and women of the police force are hardworking and diligent in performing their duties. “The few bad eggs should not be allowed to tarnish the image and reputation of the force.” Also,  Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo told anti-SARS protesters  that  all stakeholders were  concerned about police reforms. Osinbajo spoke in an interview with State House correspondents on Monday. When asked for his message for those who were still protesting, he said, “I think the clear message is that there is a government’s commitment to ensuring process of reforms; those who have committed wrongful acts are duly investigated and prosecuted and that whatever replaces SARS is something that is acceptable. “First of all, there must be compliance with all of the tenets of the rule of law and that of human  rights.” When asked if the government would meet the demands of the protesters, Osinbajo said the most important thing was that SARS had been scrapped. He said, “I think the most important thing is that SARS has been disbanded and that the IGP has also committed to ensuring that not only is it disbanded but that whatever takes its place has the full participation of the civil society groups and all other stakeholders.” On his part, former  Vice President Atiku Abubakar said  there was a need to reform the police to make them civil to Nigerians. He said the disbanding of SARS was in order. Atiku in an interview with  journalists  in Minna, Niger State, on Monday, said, “The eventual banning of the unit by the IGP,  Mohammed Adamu, is in order. The police, especially the SARS unit, is no longer operating based on its mandate of securing the country and its citizens.” Avoid violence, Anglican bishop urges protesting youths The Bishop of the Anglican Diocese of Lagos, Rt. Rev. Dr Humphrey Olumakaiye, advised the youth protesting against SARS  to avoid mob actions. Olumakaiye, in a statement, titled, ‘Towards the nation of our dream,’ on Monday urged the  youth to seek redress without resorting to violence. “With the recent uproar in our nation and in fact across the globe, on social media and on our roads about the #EndSARS agitation; the Church of God is not putting her head in the sand expecting issues to redress themselves. This is a genuine agitation and it is borne out of deep concern for the future of this nation. “We strongly appeal to our youths not to allow themselves to be weaponised by enemies of progress of this country, those who do not encourage and reinforce positive values that can bring about a Nigeria we can all be proud of.” The Personal Assistant to the President on New Media, Bashir Ahmad,  said a presidential executive order was not needed to disband the squad. Ahmad made the clarification in a message he posted on his Twitter handle, @BashirAhmaad.  Ahmad said SARS was not created by any executive order or legislative act. But a former member of the Senate,  Kabiru Marafa, faulted the scrapping of SARS. He stated this on Monday, in a statement in Abuja titled, “Marafa faults scrapping of SARS, tells Buhari to shine his eyes” The Senator, who represented Zamfara Central at the Senate, between 2011 and 2015, said the protest in parts of the country was actually targeted at the President and not  SARS. Carry out comprehensive police reforms, Okowa tells IGP Commenting on the issue, the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, urged the IGP to  carry out a comprehensive reform of the police. The governor, in a statement he personally signed, in Asaba, noted that the disbandment of SARS was a decisive step taken by the IGP. “Finally, let me say that the IGP should not stop at disbanding SARS. That is but one step in the multiple steps required in carrying out a comprehensive reform of the Nigeria Police Force,” he added.. On its part, the PDP   urged  Buhari to go beyond scrapping SARS by restructuring the police. This was contained in a statement titled, “SARS: PDP  demands complete overhaul, restructuring of police …berates APC for attempting to trivialise SARS excesses,” signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, on Monday. The PDP urged the  President  take immediate steps to “completely overhaul and restructure the entire police architecture to engender professionalism, adherence to rule of law and respect for the fundamental rights of Nigerians. “ A group, Concerned Nigerians,  asked the United States and the United Kingdom to impose a visa ban on the Oyo State Commissioner, Nwachukwu Enwonwu and members of his family, over the alleged shooting of an #EndSARS protester. The group, in a letter to the US Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Leonard, said the police in the state killed a protester despite the dissolution of SARS. The letter titled, ‘An urgent appeal for visa ban on the Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Nwachukwu Enwonwu and members of his family,’ dated October 12, 2020, was signed by the Convener, Concerned Nigerian, Deji Adeyanju. It was also copied to the British High Commission and the European Union. A civil society organization, the Centre for Leadership and Justice, criticised the IGP for delaying the police reform. The group expressed dissatisfaction with the IG for abandoning the process of reforming the police, which was started by his predecessor, Ibrahim Idris. The President of the group, Emmanuel Umohinyang, said this in an interview with The PUNCH, on Monday. My daughter almost lost her life to SARS men, says Ooni Meanwhile, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has supported the scrapping of SARS. Ogunwusi said on Twitter that his 25-year-old daughter once had a nasty experience with SARS operatives that almost cost her her life. The monarch,  therefore,  stated that he was happy that youths  were finally standing up for their rights. Tweeting through his handle, @OoniAdimulaIfe, he said, “I understand your plight, my 25 -year-old daughter had a nasty experience with SARS, almost losing her life. On her way to the airport, she was stopped and terribly ransacked and surrounded by fully armed plain clothes policemen in a bus, detained for close to 30 minutes of thorough questioning. “Imagine a young female for that matter; all her belongings completely searched all because she was with a laptop on an official assignment from her office in Lagos. I can only imagine the countless ones that have lost their lives from such ordeals, may their souls rest in peace. “I assure you that this is the beginning of greater things to come in Nigeria. I implore you to demand  more, but plead with you to do so in a peaceful manner, as anything outside of that will cause unnecessary havoc for all.” The monarch said he was aware that some protesters had been unjustly arrested by the police. He said he would do everything to ensure that they were freed. Ogunwusi advised the police to understand that the protests would also improve the welfare of men and women of the Force and asked them to see it as such. The Lagos State governor while addressing anti-SARS protesters in Lagos, said he identified with the protesters. According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary,  Gboyega  Akosile, Sanwo-Olu said he spoke with the IGP  on the position of the state government on police reforms, adding that he would visit Buhari on Tuesday (today) and present the demands of Lagos youths on the issues. In a related development, the IGP on Monday revealed that the training of a new police unit to replace the disbanded SARS would commence next week. He promised to investigate all cases of brutality by SARS operatives and bring the perpetrators to book. Adamu spoke when popular musician, David Adeleke aka Davido, visited him in his office on Monday over the ongoing #EndSARS protests. He said with SARS being disbanded, there was a need to set up a new structure to carry out the duties of the defunct police unit which is fighting violent crimes. He said the new outfit would be intelligence-driven, properly trained and only act on occasions that required their attention. He said the unit would be made up of fresh personnel with a new orientation and not officers from the scrapped unit. According to the police boss,  opportunities would be created for members of the public to make inputs into the formation of the new unit. Adamu called for calm, noting that Davido‘s visit to talk about the issue was the best way to deal with the current problem. He said in the formation of the new unit, corrections would be taken from the experience of SARS. Adamu stated, “We just disbanded (SARS) yesterday (Sunday), so protesters should calm down and give us time to fix the problem. The general public will be part of the process of getting a new outfit. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Monday, sought the release of #EndSARS protesters arrested by the police in Surulere area of Lagos State. Gbajabiamila, who is representing Surulere 1 Federal Constituency, said via his verified Twitter handle (@femigbaja) that he had spoken to the Commissioner of Police in Lagos, Hakeem Odumosu, on those arrested and detained. He also said he instructed a Nollywood star and member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Desmond Elliot, to approach the police for the release of the protesters. In Edo State, following the intervention of Governor Godwin Obaseki, the state police command has commenced the release of #EndSARS protesters arrested in the state. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, said this in a statement in Benin City, the state capital, on Monday. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 