Peter Dada, Akure THE Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, has declared that the police would was battle-ready for Saturday’s governorship election in Ondo State. Similarly, the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Mahmud Yakubu, said the commission was ready to conduct a free, fair and credible election, promising that the success recorded in the just concluded governorship poll in Edo would be repeated in Ondo State. Both the INEC and police chiefs spoke at the INEC’s stakeholders meeting held in Akure, the Ondo State capital, on Monday, ahead the forthcoming election. The IGP said the police had identified some flashpoints in the state and necessary action had been taken to handle the situation and maintain law and order in those areas. Adamu specifically disclosed that 16 flashpoints were identified in the state. The police boss said, “In order to mitigate the identified threats, we shall be deploying, aside our intelligence assets, a total of 33,783 police personnel on election security duty in Ondo State. This will comprise 30,933 conventional police personnel and 2,850 Special Police Units.” In his remarks, the INEC chairman, who insisted that the preparation for the election was at its peak, also expressed assurance that the Ondo election would be an improvement on the last election in Edo State. He reiterated that all the candidates of the election and the representative of their political parties would sign a peace accord on Tuesday, as part of the efforts to ensure violence-free poll on Saturday. In his remarks, the Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps , Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, urged the corps members that would work as ad-hoc staff for the election to perform their duties in line with the electoral law. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com