Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party and its All Progressives Congress counterpart on Sunday engaged in a war of words over the breakdown of law and order in parts of the state. While the PDP accused the Governor Kayode Fayemi-led APC administration of sponsoring armed thugs to attack people and destroy property, the ruling party accused a faction of the opposition party of being the brain behind the violence and looting which followed last week’s peaceful #EndSARS protest embarked upon by youths. PDP factional Publicity Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju, in a statement titled, “PDP accuses Fayemi of unleashing armed thugs on Ekiti people…says people being attacked will defend themselves if the government can’t,” charged the police to bring the perpetrators to book. Adeyanju alleged among other things that “a guest house owned by a musician and former House of Assembly member, Dayo Akinleye (aka Dayo Maxima), was invaded last (Saturday) night by armed thugs led by one Marshal, where four persons were abducted and gunshots fired indiscriminately. “The four people abducted by the thugs were dumped at the Police Headquarters in Ado Ekiti after they had been taken to the Government House where they were assaulted, are now being detained like criminals while nothing has been done to apprehend the thugs who attacked them. “It will get to a point that the people will be forced to defend themselves if the government that should protect them is the one unleashing thugs on them and the consequences will not be palatable for anyone.” Reacting to the allegation, the State APC Publicity Secretary, Ade Ajayi, in a statement titled, “State is calm and peaceful; only criminals and their sponsors have something to fear,” accused a faction of the PDP loyal to former governor Ayodele Fayose of “subversive activities and masterminding the recent looting and brigandage.” Ajayi said “Their (PDP) intention was to raze down the new Civic Centre and the Governor’s office. They actually attempted to invade the Governor’s Office, but were resisted by the combined forces of security agencies. “Even the least discerning in the state would confirm that the looting was masterminded by PDP leaders in Ekiti State in their failed attempt to discredit the Fayemi government. We wish to make it clear that Ekiti is safe for the law-abiding citizens, but very unsafe for criminals and their sponsors.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  