Ife Ogunfuwa The President of the International Fund for Agricultural Development, Gilbert Houngbo, has called on governments to increase their investments in rural women. According to him, the global food supply is at risk if governments don’t start prioritising rural women during the COVID-19 pandemic. “It is unacceptable that rural women, who play such a vital role in growing our food and building thriving economies, are at the greatest risk during the pandemic,” said Houngbo on the occasion of the International Day of Rural Women. “Our global resilience depends on governments paying greater attention to the disproportionate socio-economic impacts on rural women and stepping up their investments to protect them.” Research showed that there were approximately 1.7 billion women and girls living in rural areas, representing more than one-fifth of all humanity. It has been discovered that rural women make up 43 per cent of the agricultural workforce in developing countries, and were responsible for much of the world’s food production. However, research indicated that they had less access than men to technologies, markets, financial assets and agricultural resources, making them far more vulnerable to the impacts of COVID-19. IFAD noted that restrictions on movement had limited the ability of rural producers to grow and sell their produce. According to the fund, rural women, who are often employed informally with no social protection, have faced higher job loss than men, while also experiencing an increase in unpaid domestic workloads, including caring for sick family members and children not in school. “Rural women – the people who have the greatest responsibility for feeding and raising the next generation – have been neglected through this crisis,” Houngbo said. “It is time to elevate the important contribution they make to their families, communities and the economies of their nations, and ensure that they are supported and protected through this unprecedented time.” According to IFAD, study shows that women aged 25-34 are still 25 per cent more likely than men to live in extreme poverty. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   