Ted Odogwu, Kano Crack detectives from the Kano State Police Command, on Saturday, arrested a 26-year-old housewife, Hauwa Habibu, who allegedly stabbed her two biological children to death in Kano. In a press statement, the command’s spokesman, DSP Abdullahi Kiyawa, disclosed that on October 3, 2020 around 11.30am, the police received information that Habibu, who lives in Diso quarters, Gwale Local Government Area of Kano, attacked and killed her two children, six-year-old Irfan Ibrahim and three-year-old Zuhura Ibrahim. Kiyawa claimed that the suspect also injured her nephew, 10-year-old Aisha Sadiq, before fleeing the scene. According to the statement, the state Commissioner of Police, Habu Sani, ordered a team of detectives to comb the metropolis and arrest the fleeing Habibu, within 24 hours. ‘’A team of detectives immediately rushed to the scene and promptly conveyed the victims to the Murtala Muhammed Specialist Hospital, where a doctor on duty confirmed the two children dead, while the third victim was rushed to the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, where she was treated and discharged,’’ the statement added. The police team was said to have arrested the suspect around 10.50pm on the same day of the incident. ‘’On preliminary investigation, the suspect admitted to have locked up their house and used a machete and an aluminium-made pestle to attack the three helpless children, causing them severe bodily injuries in different parts of their body. “Meanwhile, CP Habu A. Sani has ordered the transfer of the case to the State Criminal Investigation Department for discreet investigation, while Hauwa (Habibu) is still in the custody of the police,” police spokesman said. An online news platform, Sahara Reporters, while quoting a family source, claimed that the suspect killed the children because her husband, Haruna Ibrahim, took a second wife. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 