Our Correspondents The call for an end to police brutality and reform of the force gained more support across the country on Tuesday, as more states joined in the #EndSARS protest. The protest, which was largely peaceful, held in many parts of the country with some confrontation with security agencies. In Abuja, soldiers prevented the protesters from gaining access to the National Assembly. Soldiers assault cameraman, Abuja protesters The soldiers also assaulted the some of the protesters and an Arise TV cameraman, who was covering the rally. The protesters were moving towards the National Assembly complex entrance when the soldiers blocked their path and ordered them to turn back. The youth in their hundreds chanted, ‘End police brutality’, and knelt while singing the national anthem. But about five armed soldiers swooped on them and the Arise TV team and assaulted them. They also snatched the Arise TV camera and disrupted a live coverage of the demonstration. It is the second time security operatives would attack the Arise TV journalists in 48 hours. Police disperse Adamawa protesters In Adamawa State, the police dispersed a group of youths, who attempted to protest. One of them, who spoke to PUNCH Metro on condition of anonymity, said they wanted to stage a peaceful protest from the Police roundabout to the office of the Commissioner of Police. Wike join protesters, seeks police reform In Rivers State, where Governor Nyesom Wike had placed a ban on protests, thousands of youths marched in Port Harcourt to the Government House, where they demanded that Wike addressed them. The protest brought social and economic activities to a halt. Veteran Nollywood actress, Hilda Dokubo; ex-Big Brother Naija housemate, Tacha; and popular comedian, K. O. Baba, among others, were among celebrities at the protest, which led to a complete lockdown of the city. Wike, who joined the protesters later, called for a total reform of the police force. He said, “I never supported us to be here. I took an oath to protect the lives and property of the people of the state. “Rivers State is a state in this country that has suffered in the hands of SARS. When we raised the alarm about SARS activities, they did not give attention. When it happened in other places, you want me to listen. “I will not do that. No governor in this country can say they have challenged SARS the way we have done. When there was so much kidnapping in this state, I raised an alarm to the Federal Government. They said it was politics and I prayed to God that it should be all over the country. It has now gone round the country; it is no longer politics. “I am the only governor that has come out to start end SARS protest. No other state. We have lost so many people in this state to SARS. No state supported us. SARS has killed our people a lot. The same SARS has killed in another state, they want me to protest, I will not. Rivers blood is important to me. Rivers State cannot play a second fiddle role. “I will do what is right at all times. Every Nigeria must support the reform of the police.” Youths again block Lagos roads In Lagos, the agitation for an executive order from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), approving the five demands of the #EndSARS protesters continued with the youth blocking major highways and preventing vehicular movement. The protesters converged on the tollgate in Lekki and the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge, the secretariat end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, the Allen roundabout, Akowonjo and Abule-Egba, among other areas in the state. Speaking at the protest in Ikeja, musical artiste, Eedris Abdulkareem, demanded that in addition to ending police brutality, tariffs and taxes enslaving Nigerian youths should be abolished. In Lekki, celebrities, including Folarin Falana, aka Falz the bad guy; Jude Abaga, aka MI; Paul Okoye, aka Rudeboy; Banky W and Seyi Awolowo, among others, were seen protesting alongside the youth. Commuters trapped in the gridlock for hours disembarked from their vehicles to trek to their various destinations. Osun protesters damage fire vehicle In Osun State, youths in Osogbo, Ilesha and Ile Ife trooped to the streets. Protesters, upon sighting the operational van of the Federal Fire Service on the Osogbo/Gbongan Road attacked the vehicle. Both the rear and back screens were smashed, while two of the occupants of the van were also injured, as the driver drove onto the police premises in Oke Baale, Osogbo, to escape from the mob. Another protester dies in Ogbomoso Another victim, Ibrahim Abdulganiyu, who was on Sunday shot during the #EndSARS protest in Ogbomsoo, Oyo State, is dead. A former Vice-Chairman, Ogbomoso Central Local Council Development Area, Chief Ademola Olawale, stated this in an interview with one of our correspondents on Tuesday. He said the 19-year-old victim, who lived in the Saja area of the town, was buried immediately. Another resident of the town, who confirmed that the death toll had risen, said he heard the news of Abdulganiyu’s death on Ajilete FM (Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State). Recall that a bystander, Jimoh Isiaka, was killed on Saturday during the protest against the in the town. There was gridlock for several hours in parts of Ibadan, the state capital, on Tuesday as protesters besieged major roads in the metropolis. The aggrieved youths, bearing placards with different inscriptions, chanted anti-SARS songs as they moved down major streets in Ibadan to press home their points. Some lawmakers in the Oyo State House of Assembly expressed solidarity with the protesting youths, which comprised artistes, students and members of the #RevolutionNow Movement. Two arrested, freed in Kaduna In Kaduna, the police arrested two protesters who joined their counterparts to demand an end to SARS and police brutality. They were eventually released on the orders of the state Police Commissioner, Umar Muri. The protesters, who were in large numbers, lamented how SARS operatives had over the years unleashed terror on them. Entertainers lead Ogun protest In Ogun State, Nollywood actors, Odulade Adekola and Bolaji Amusan, aka Mr Latin, and a popular Fuji musician, Sefiu Alao, led a peaceful protest against police brutality in the state. The celebrities took off from the Panseke area of Abeokuta and walked through to the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Ogun State council, where they addressed journalists. Amusan, who is the National President of the Theatre Arts and Motion Picture Producers Association of Nigeria, said it was high time the government took decisive actions to straighten the police. He said, “After #EndSARS protest, what next? It’s time for the Federal Government to begin holistic reforms of the police. “The police must stop this brutality against fellow Nigerians. We are saying no to all forms of intimidation, illegal arrests and extrajudicial killings.” Imo youths protest In Imo State, scores of youths took to the streets of Owerri in protest against what they called police brutality and extortion. The protesters, who took off from the Freedom Square at the Warehouse junction in the state capital, caused gridlock. Clad in black attire, the protesting youths displayed placards, which sought reforms of the Nigeria Police Force. They said the announcement of the disbandment of SARS was not enough. Delta Govt House entrance blocked In Delta State, thousands of protesters blocked the entrance to the Government House to add their voices to the campaign against SARS. The protesters, who demanded an audience with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, vowed to remain at the Government House and barricaded the entrance to the seat of power. They were not deterred by the torrential rainfall, which drenched them for several hours. Peaceful protest in Ebonyi, Enugu In Ebonyi State, the protest was peaceful, as the youth moved from the popular Presco junction, Abakaliki, through Udensi roundabout to the Government House. Bearing placards with different inscriptions, the youth noted that the disbandment of SARS was not enough, adding that a holistic overhaul and reform of the entire police system would save the day. In Enugu, business activities were partially paralysed as hundreds of youths joined the protest against police brutality and extrajudicial killings. The protest started around 9.30am from different locations in the state capital. While music stars like Flavour, Phyno and Zoro were among the group that started from the Michael Okpara Square, another group led by a rights activist, Larry Oguego, started from the Institute of Management and Technology. Although Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi did not come out to address the protesters, they, however, snubbed the Deputy Governor, Cecilia Ezeilo, who attempted to address them on behalf of the governor, who was said to be around. The state Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdulrahman, while addressing the protesters at the police headquarters, commended their orderly conduct. Abdulrahman observed that the majority of the protesters were decent people, adding that their demands were legitimate and would be looked into. Ondo protesters decry police attitude In Ondo, hundreds of youths gathered at the Road Block area of Akure, the state capital, and headed towards the Oyemekun and Oba Adesida roads, chanting various solidarity songs. They also carried placards with inscriptions such as ‘#EndSARS,’ ‘#SARS must end’, ‘Save the youth,’ among others. One of the protesters, Mr Olusegun Oladele, decried the attitude of the men of the Nigeria Police towards the youth. Group seeks visa ban for Lagos, Ogun, Oyo CPs A group, Concerned Nigerians, has asked the United States of America to impose visa restrictions on the Commissioners of Police in Lagos and Ogun states, Hakeem Odumosu and Edward Ajogun, respectively. It accused them of supervising extrajudicial killing of protesters. The group had earlier asked the US to impose a visa ban on the Oyo State CP, Nwachukwu Enwonwu, over the killing of a bystander during the #EndSARS protest. The group’s demand was contained in a letter to the US Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Leonard, dated October 12, and titled, ‘An urgent appeal for visa ban on senior police officers supervising extrajudicial killings of #EndSARS protesters and rights violations in Nigeria’. The letter, signed by the Coordinator of the group, Deji Adeyanju, read, “It is important to note that these senior police officers refused to stop the extrajudicial killings of #EndSARS protesters within their commands by officers under them. “They are, therefore, vicariously liable for the actions of the officers under them. The Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, went further with impunity to charge two protesters for attempted murder. We also request that this visa ban be extended to members of their families.” Another group, Coalition of Civil Society Organisations of Nigeria, voiced its support for the disbanding of SARS. A spokesman for the group, Edomobi Promise, in statement on Tuesday, said SARS had constituted itself into a terrorist organisation. The group called for total overhaul of the police. We’ve disarmed SARS officers, says Odumosu The Lagos CP, Odumosu, says he has complied with the directive of the IG disbanding SARS. Odumosu, who addressed a group of lawyers protesting police brutality as part of the raging the #EndSARS campaign, said already policemen under SARS had been disarmed and their offices shut down. He added that suspects in their custody had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department in Panti for the continuation of investigation. He assured the protesting lawyers that they would never find any SARS operative in operation again. “If you go to their offices in Surulere and Gbagada, they are under lock and key; we only posted policemen there to guard the places. They are no more functioning,” the CP said. Odumosu, who commended the protesters, led by a human rights lawyer, Inibehe Effiong, for their maturity and decorum, added that no single participant in the #EndSARS protest had been killed by the police since the protest started last week. He said the person who died from a stray bullet at Surulere on Monday, was not a protester but a driver, who came out of his car to check the cause of the gridlock on the road. Odumosu added that police officers seen in a viral video harassing a female protester had been arrested and were being detained. Also, the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Trust in the 2019 election, Mr Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, on Tuesday, canvassed for an efficient police service run by well-trained officers and men. He said such officers must be motivated and well paid consistent with acceptable Standard Operating Procedures and made accountable to the protection of citizens; fundamental human rights. Ogun, Imo, Delta, Oyo govs call for calm Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, appealed to #EndSARS protesters in the state to be peaceful, calm and civil in their conduct. He pledged that his administration would facilitate investigation into any act of brutality of citizens by law enforcement agents. Abiodun also promised to facilitate compensation of victims, while identifying and holding errant law enforcement officers accountable. The governor said this on Tuesday in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin. He also enjoined security agencies to always exercise restraint and avoid use of force in managing peaceful protests. His Imo State counterpart, Hope Uzodinma, urged the youth in the state, who besieged the Government House in Owerri that the President would reform the police. Uzodinma said the President was democratic and sensitive to the demands of the Nigerian people. Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, on his part, said the ongoing nationwide protest was a reflection of leadership and family failures over the years. Okowa, who stated this while addressing the protesters at the Government House, Asaba, said there would not have been any need for the protest if leaders were accountable to the people. He told the protesters that as youths of the nation, they had every right to organise themselves to protest against societal ills. The governor announced the constitution of a five-member Police Complaints Committee, with two representatives of the youth as members. Governor Seyi Makinde, while addressing the #EndSARS protesters at the Oyo State Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, promised to secure the release of all arrested protesters. He said his administration had put in place mechanisms to ensure the safety of protesters. Makinde, who was accompanied by the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Debo Ogundoyin; the Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Seun Fakorede, and some members of the state House of Assembly, lauded the protesters for conducting themselves peacefully. He added that beyond the #EndSARS protest, there were underlying challenges of anger and frustration in the land, noting that leaders should do more on employment creation. Bring all SARS personnel to Borno to fight B’Haram’ In Borno State, a pro-SARS rally was held in Maiduguri, the state capital, to protest the recent disbandment of the police unit by the Federal Government. The Chairman of the coalition of civil society organisations, Ahmed Shehu, noted that even though they were not happy with happenings in other parts of the country, SARS operatives had contributed to the fight against terrorism in the North-East. The protesters, who carried placards and banners, marched through Bolori roundabout to the Government House roundabout. In a letter presented to Governor Babagana Zulum, which contained their demands, Shehu said the group was shocked by the sudden disbandment of SARS. He said SARS personnel in Borno State were engaged in life-saving operations and were actively participating in supporting the military in counter-insurgency operations. “Borno citizens have good experience with SARS, hence we are requesting the President to deploy all the SARS formations across the country in Borno State to assist in the fight against insurgency,” he added. Dangote, CBN gov’s peace moves rejected An attempt by business leaders, including Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, and the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, to stop the #EndSARS protests met a brick wall on Monday as protesters insisted that it would continue. Activist, Aisha Yesufu, stated this in a series of tweets while responding to reports that she and other protesters met with the business community. While admitting that she had a Zoom meeting with the business leaders, Yesufu said she told them that they should speak with the President instead. Yesufu said she was lured into the meeting, adding that she would not have attended it in the first place if she knew the agenda. NHRC to set up probe panel on SARS The National Human Rights Commission said on Tuesday that it would set up an independent investigation panel to look into human rights violations by SARS. A statement by the commission’s Assistant Director of Public Affairs, Fatimah Mohammed, said the proposed IIP would be set up “within the next one week.” The NHRC’s plan to set up the fresh panel came about 16 months after a presidential panel headed by the Executive Secretary of the commission, Mr Tony Ojukwu, submitted its report recommending, among others, the proscription of SARS. By John Alechenu, Adelani Adepegba, Eniola Akinkuotu, Ade Adesomoju, Samson Folarin, Oladimeji Ramon, Deji Lambo, Bola Bamigbola, Dennis Naku, Wale Oyewale, Chidiebube Okeoma, Raphael Ede, Peter Dada, Hindi Livinus, Daud Olatunji, Kayode Idowu, Godwin Isenyo, Olufemi Olaniyi and Matthew Ochei Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com