James Abraham, Jos Plateau State Government on Saturday denied that it hoarded the palliatives looted by hoodlums and other citizens at various warehouses in the state The Punch had reported that the warehouses at the Bukuru metropolis in Jos South LGA and that located at the JIB premises along Old Airport junction where palliatives were stored were on Saturday looted by hoodlums as well as residents after they broke into their premises accusing the state government of hoarding them. But the state Commissioner for Information, Dan Manjang, in a statement in Jos on Saturday denied hoarding the relief materials and explained that the items at the warehouses were delivered to the state by the  Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Social Development and Disaster Management for distribution to beneficiaries in Plateau State. The Commissioner said ” Following the vandalization and looting of palliatives from some warehouses in Jos and Bukuru on 24th October 2020, it has become expedient for the Plateau State Government to condemn the action and further make some clarifications about the items to clear the erroneous impression that they were being hoarded. “The items at the warehouses were delivered to the state by the  Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Social Development and Disaster Management for distribution to beneficiaries in Plateau State. “The public may recall that the Hon. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouk was in Jos together with the Minister of Women Affairs Dame Paullen Tallen on the 16th October 2020 to deliver the items and had indeed brought in the personnel of the Ministry to carry out the distribution in conjunction with State officials. However, as they were preparing to begin the process, the #ENDSARS protests began which put the process on hold. “Unfortunately while the team from the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Social Development and Disaster Management alongside the state representatives were waiting for the coast to clear to commence the distribution, the stores were breached and the items carted away. “The Plateau State Government, therefore, wishes to state categorically that it did not hoard any palliatives meant for the citizens of the State at any time. All the palliatives purchased by the State and those donated by private individuals were distributed equitably by the State Palliative Committee headed by His Excellency Prof. Sonni Tyoden, Deputy Governor of Plateau State. “With this explanation, it would be wrong and mischievous for anyone to suggest that the State Government was hoarding food items meant for indigent citizens. The Rescue Administration of Governor Simon Lalong will never tolerate that. “Government wishes to once again appeal to the citizens particularly the youths to continue to conduct themselves peacefully and avoid any action that could cause the breakdown of law and order. “The Government wishes to remind citizens that directive for the ban on protests and procession is still in force and security agencies still have the mandate to arrest and prosecute those who violate the order.