Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Press Secretary to the Oluwo of Iwo, Alli Ibraheem, has demanded an investigation of the management of the hotel, where a Hilux van belonging to Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi was allegedly stolen in the early hours of Sunday, October 11, 2020. Ibraheem had in a statement on Sunday announced the theft of the vehicle at the Toilam Royal Hotel and Suites located on No. 49 Igbosere Road, Lagos Island, Lagos State, and called for any assistance that could lead to the recovery of the van. But the management of the hotel had in a letter to The PUNCH claimed that the vehicle was not parked on its premises. While reacting to the claim by the management of the hotel, Ibraheem said, “Saying the vehicle was not parked in their hotel area is suspicious. We demand that the police should conduct a special investigation on the management of the hotel. “The claim by the management of Toilam Royal Hotel and Suites that Oluwo’s Hilux pilot van was not parked in their hotel area is an act of negligence and a smart avoidance of their responsibility as a hotel. “The driver and Oluwo security aides went to lodge at the hotel. The hotel has no vehicular space except the front outside the gate. The inside fence is without vehicular space. So, they went there with two vehicles parked outside the fence in front of the hotel on the instructions of the security guard attached to the hotel. One in front, the other opposite as instructed by the security guard of the hotel. “By the morning of the next day, one of the vehicles was not found at the spot where it was parked in front of the hotel. The drivers and the security aides of the Oluwo, who slept in the hotel, went to report the incident at Lion Building Police Station, Igbosere, Lagos. “After much efforts, the officers approached the management of the hotel to know their efforts on the stolen vehicle. When asked, they said they had reported, but could not state where exactly they reported to. “Maybe we should ask the hotelier whether the Oluwo drivers and security aides lodged at the hotel or not. Then, we can begin to raise fundamental questions on the hotel’s security and safety. I’m hopeful that the hotel is not trying to expose the porosity of its operation or we should ask the meaning of ‘our hotel area’. “We commend the Nigeria Police for their concern and unrelenting efforts in searching for the stolen vehicle. Though the vehicle has not yet been found, but we are hopeful.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, told our correspondent that he was going to make further findings and revert but had yet to do so as of the time this report was filed. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com