Nike Popoola Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc has said it aims to improve and deepen the financial knowledge of Nigerian children through its new school money initiative. It said this in a statement on Sunday titled ‘Stanbic IBTC educates preteens, teenagers on financial literacy’. The group said its forth sessions which held virtually recently with the theme ‘The art of money: earn, save and invest’, educated preteens and teenagers on how to develop savings and investment culture. The Zonal Head, Micro Pension and Agency, Stanbic IBTC Pensions Managers, Obinna Lewis-Asonye, who anchored one of the sessions, said earning money was the first step towards financial freedom, followed by budgeting and investing. He urged participants to inculcate a savings plan to enable them to keep their money safe while it grows with interest. “To get more money, you must limit your withdrawal so that your interest can grow,” he said. Other representatives of Stanbic IBTC emphasised the need to cultivate the habit of saving and investing as a guarantee towards becoming financially independent, the statement said. According to them, it is important to consider the kind of investments that suit the needs, which can be long, medium, or short term. They added that a better future was assured by investing in government bonds, treasury bills, mutual funds and commercial papers, among others. The hosts described the initiative as essential in imparting financial education in the younger generation, while strengthening their financial management skills and enhancing their understanding of financial matters. They encouraged Nigerian children to engage in meaningful ventures to generate income as a first step towards making money. The statement said 150 winners emerged across the sessions from the various tasks which were completed and were all awarded with Stanbic IBTC mutual funds as prizes. Speaking on the continuity of the initiative, the Head, Marketing and Communications, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Bridget Oyefeso-Odusami, said that the session would be an annual event as part of the organisation’s goal to continually increase the number of financial literate individuals across the country. Oyefeso-Odusami highlighted the importance of the initiative, noting that financial literacy should begin from an early stage for easy attainment of financial freedom. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  