IT demonstrates the lack of competitiveness of Nigeria’s non-oil sector and the national economy that the country’s manufacturers are unable to optimise the wide-ranging benefits in the United States’ African Growth and Opportunity Act since coming into force 20 years ago. The Executive Director, Nigerian Export Promotion Council, Segun Awolowo, had lamented this during a webinar for Nigerian exporters, which was organised by the West African Trade and Investment Hub in collaboration with the NEPC and Feed the Future Nigeria. Essentially, it became clear that “only a few Nigerian exporters” had benefited from the duty-free trade opportunity emplaced by the US. The NEPC boss pointed out that although the agency had worked to ensure Nigerians took advantage of the opportunity provided by AGOA to earn the much-needed foreign exchange, not much benefit had come to the country from it in terms of increased exports and foreign exchange earnings. “Little has been achieved with regard to the benefits of AGOA despite sensitisation and training on certification and documentation,” he said. This should worry the government and elicit a pragmatic response from the policymakers. Signed into law in May 2000 by former US President Bill Clinton, AGOA is a bipartisan and non-reciprocal legislation to help develop trade and facilitate the export of 6,400 goods, duty-free, from sub-Saharan Africa into America. Among other gains, the primary objectives of AGOA are to promote increased trade and investment between the US and sub-Saharan African countries; promote increased access and opportunities for the US investors and businesses in African countries, as well as promote economic development and reforms on the continent. The programme was initially planned to last for eight years, but Clinton’s successor, George Bush, extended it to 2015. In June 2015, former US President Barrack Obama further extended the validity of the Act by 10 years to 2025. It is claimed that AGOA is the cornerstone of the US trade policy with Africa given that in 2017 alone, American companies exported nearly $22 billion in goods to Africa. Appallingly, as of 2014, Nigeria had only exported $6 million worth of goods to the US compared to the $6 billion accounted for by other sub-Saharan African nations, official records show. A former President, Nigeria-American Chamber of Commerce, Olabimtan Famutimi, in 2017 complained that the programme was abused in its first term by “Nigerian leaders who relied only on crude oil (export) instead of maximising the opportunities of the Act by leveraging the 6,400 items allowed to be exported.” This should be reversed. While other African countries, with the possible exception of Ivory Coast, Niger Republic and Guinea which lost their eligibility in 2005 and 2010 respectively due to undemocratic changes of government, are taking full advantage of the huge opportunities provided by AGOA, Nigeria is floundering. One major hindrance is the electricity deficit, which the government has not resolved, as the energy cost is a huge burden on small business owners. Ironically, the country currently ranks as the largest economy on the continent with a GDP valued at $397 billion, overtaking South Africa with a GDP of $366 billion. According to the Ghana National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ghana’s trade under the programme in 2018 registered a total of $748 million. It reached its peak in 2011 with export earnings of $779 million and recorded a decline of $292 million in 2012. This performance, the GHCCI said, “has been sustained by its broadly diversified exports to the US in the areas of textiles and apparel, energy-related products, agricultural products, footwear, and minerals and metals.” A former US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs and non-resident fellow at the Brookings Africa Growth Initiative, Witney Schneidman, observed, “South Africa’s auto exports under AGOA have created tens of thousands of jobs.” He notes that when apparel from AGOA-exporting countries such as Lesotho, Ethiopia, Mauritius, Eswatini and Kenya, “are found by American consumers in their favourite stores next to clothing from Canada and Mexico… they begin to think about African nations as reliable and cost-effective suppliers to American households.” Sadly, Nigeria is losing out at this level. There is still much to be done in promoting export growth. Enhancing the domestic enabling environment for potential exporters; fostering the strategic cooperation between private and public actors; improving the productivity and technological content of domestic goods, and providing incentives to nurturing innovation; facilitating access to credit and stimulating institutional development and complementarities, experts say, are some of the successful strategies to help developing countries boost exports. For a country with a bulging youth population, as the UNFPA estimates those within the 15-64 years age bracket constitute 54 percent of the total population, its inability to take advantage of AGOA speaks volumes. The government should see it as a low-hanging fruit to address the huge unemployment rate estimated by global auditors PwC Nigeria, to reach 28 percent in Q3 2020 and 30 percent by Q4 2020, to create jobs and diversify its foreign exchange earnings. Therefore, the Federal Government should produce a policy framework in response to reconsider its engagement with AGOA. In particular, the call by the exporters of food products on it to provide an enabling environment for easy export to the US under AGOA should be looked into. There is a need for a diplomatic interface with the US authorities to relax the ban on the export of Nigerian fish to the US. “In the past, export of food, particularly shrimps, to the US was high; now, there is a ban on export of Nigerian fish to the US until the needful is done by the appropriate authority,” Regional Coordinator of the NEPC (South-West), Babatunde Faleke, demanded in 2019. Above all, the operating environment for the SMEs accentuated by multiple taxation, levies and charges, vice-like regulation from sundry agencies and policy somersaults should be reviewed and made less hostile. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  