Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The Rivers State Government has warned commercial banks where its accounts are operated that they stand to lose its patronage for closing their halls to members of the public. The state Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim, who said this in a statement in Port Harcourt on Thursday, explained that commercial banks and other business concerns were supposed to open for normal business, rather than using the curfew placed on some parts of the state as an excuse to paralyse economic activities. The statement reads partly, “It has come to the attention of the Rivers State Government that some members of the business community are using the curfew imposed in some parts of the state to cripple government and economic activities. “Commercial Banks and other businesses are supposed to be open for normal services. “Therefore, commercial banks where government accounts are  operated are advised not to join those involved in any unpatriotic act or lose their patronage. “For the avoidance of doubt, the curfew was imposed only on the Oyigbo Local Government Area, Mile One, Mile Two, Iloabuchi, Emenike  Ikokwu and Oil Mill areas of Port Harcourt. All other parts of the state are expected to be fully open for business.” Wike inaugurates rights abuse panel Meanwhile, the state governor, Nyesom Wike, has inaugurated a Judicial Commission of Inquiry to investigate acts of brutality and human rights violation perpetrated by operatives of the disbanded Federal- Special Anti-Robbery Squad(F-SARS) in the state. The commission which members were selected from Nigerian Bar Association, civil society, youths, women and religious groups is expected to submit its report within 60 days from the date of its first sitting. Wike, during the inauguration of the panel at the Government House, Port Harcourt, on Thursday, asked the commission to, among others ascertain whether any policeman, particularly F-SARS member, was involved in alleged acts of violence, torture, brutality, murder, violation of fundamental human rights or other atrocities in Rivers State. In his response, the Chairman of the commission, Justice Chukwunenye Uriri (retd.), assured the governor that the commission would discharge its duties with clear conscience and within the limits of the law. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  