There is a popular saying that when you are married, you stop thinking about only yourself but about more people. One of the most popular restrictions people have is how they will travel to Canada with their spouse and kids. Many people stop their dreams of studying in Canada because they don’t have enough information on how to go about this. Here is a story of how Mrs. Ajibola and her family jumped this popular hurdle and will be leaving for Canada by the end of 2020. Mrs. Ajibola applied and got her study visa approved in January 2020 after she had deferred her school admission to January 2021. On 19th February 2020, some weeks after her study visa approval, the husband submitted his Spouse Open Work Permit application (online route) contrary to common opinion that Spouse Open Work Permit can’t be granted when the spouse has not been enrolled or has not resumed school in Canada. Unfortunately for them, he was refused on 18th March 2020 for failure to submit evidence of LMIA (Labor Market Impact Assessment) or LMIA exemption. They responded to the Visa Officer by referencing a CIC link where it was clearly stated that LMIA is not required for Spouse Open Work Permit. A new application was submitted on 23rd March 2020 and his permit was approved on 14th May 2020. They will both be going to Canada in December 2020 so as to resume by January 2021. It has ended in praise for them!!! Contrary to what you’ve always heard about travelling to Canada with your family, it is actually not difficult if you know what you are doing. Just like Mrs. Ajibola and her family, you will be learning how to travel to Canada for your studies either individually or with your family if you join our free webinar === > https://noieltstocanada.com/ Do you have a family of 2 or 12? It doesn’t matter. You can relocate to Canada with them come January, May and September 2021. Join the free webinar to know more == > https://noieltstocanada.com/ The TRAINING will show you most Reliable and Shortest Way To Live, Study and Work Permanently in Canada without writing IELTS exam or paying huge money to Travel Agent All your questions and concerns about this reliable pathway will be answered in the Video class so watch till the end because you’ll get my WhatsApp number. Click on this link to know more == > https://noieltstocanada.com/ This will work for you only if you are between Age 18 to 50, you need minimum of WAEC/NECO/ND/NCE/KCSE/Grade 12 or equivalent as minimum requirement, You don’t need WES evaluation or any form of ECA for this Study-Work-Permanent Residence Pathway and you don’t need to know someone in Canada. Join my webinar training now by Clicking on this link == > https://noieltstocanada.com/ Webtags:  ielts 4.5 accepted in universities in canada,  without ielts study visa countries list 2020, scholarship without ielts requirement, canada immigration without ielts 2020, study in canada without ielts from nigeria, study masters in canada for free, study abroad fully funded scholarships, is ielts compulsory for canada student visa, which university does not require ielts in canada, canada study permit without ielts, how to go canada without ielts The best time to start your relocation process to Canada is now, The longer you wait, the harder it becomes!!!