Patrick Odey, Uyo  Oe Udoh Okon has allegedly killed his wife by bathing her in acid at the Mbiakpan Ikot Edim village in the Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area of Akwa State. It was gathered that the incident happened on Friday as the man allegedly poured acid on his wife as a result of a minor disagreement and fled to an unknown destination. According to a source, the wife was rushed to an undisclosed hospital in Uyo by good Samaritans, where she died on Saturday as a result of severe acid burns. The source told our correspondent on Sunday that one Solomon Martins, a vigilante, and his colleagues heard the woman screaming for help around 1pm near their duty posts and rushed to the scene. “On getting there, they discovered that the man poured acid on her and ran away,” the source added. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, who confirmed the incident, said the police, with the assistance of the youth, had launched a manhunt for Okon, adding that he would soon be apprehended. He said the Commissioner of police, Andrew Amiengheme, was miffed at the incident, wondering why a man would commit such a wicked act against his wife with whom he had raised children. Macdon stated, “I can confirm that information to be true and the husband, who bathed his wife with acid, unfortunately has absconded. I will like to say that the police are closed to apprehending him. The police are not working alone but with the assistance of the youths of the community, and they have vowed to ensure that justice is done. “It is an unfortunate incident; the Commissioner of Police is miffed at the development and has vowed to ensure that family values are respected in the state. He gave an assurance that such form of domestic violence or any other form of violence would not be tolerated in the state.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   