Ife Ogunfuwa The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria has appealed to Nigerian youths and law enforcement agents to sheathe their swords for meaningful dialogue to take place. The union condemned the killings and maiming of innocent youths some of whom it said were Nigerian workers and TUC members. In a statement on Wednesday, the TUC President, Quadri Olaleye, and the Secretary General, Musa-Lawal Ozigi, expressed admiration at the courage of the youths who turned out enmass to protect the future of the country. They noted that the protests had been largely peaceful until the state sponsored violence against unarmed youths. TUC said that the standard around the world when there was breakdown in law and order, the use of water cannon, baton, teargas, and rubber bullets was employed. According to the union, no sane government will use live ammunition on its youths. The leadership urged the government to listen to the agitations of the youths and address their concerns. He said, “We call on our gallant youths and law enforcement agents to sheathe their swords for meaningful discussion to take place. No war has ever been won on battle ground rather, on the table. “We call on the government to as a matter of urgency to identify the leaders of the protesting youths for a roundtable discussion with a view to listen to the agitations, address the concerns such as police and other security agencies brutality, unemployment, corruption, unfair labour treatment, human capital development and infrastructural deficit, among others.” The TUC demanded immediate investigation into the killings and maiming of innocent protesters; the sponsors of the thugs that attacked the youths and public facilities; prosecution of the security agent’s involved in the killings and adequate compensation for all the affected victims and families. The union proposed a conference of youths in the 36 states of the federation and the federal capital to douse the tensions and articulate the demands of the youth. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com