Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The retired General Evangelist Worldwide, Christ Apostolic Church, Prophet Samuel Abiara, has condemned the killings of protesters at the Lekki Tollgate area of Lagos on Tuesday, October 20 by suspected military men. The cleric also condemned the wanton destruction of lives and properties by hoodlums who took an advantage of the #EndSARS protests. Abiara, who spoke on Friday through a personally signed statement titled, ‘State of the nation,’ also said the unrest being witnessed in Nigeria was a sign of the end time and evidence that the devil was at work to destroy the destinies of youths. The statement read in part, “It is with grief that I make this statement concerning the #EndSARS protests embarked upon by youths across the nation. What started on a peaceful note by the youth is taking an alarming dimension. “I strongly implore the federal, state and local government councils to please grant the requests of the youths. It is highly condemnable that military force could be used on protesters, resulting in the death of many of our youths. I appeal to the government to stop the use of force.” “Remember the issue at stake: the use of force and brutality by the police sparked the protests. The international communities are watching. Equally, I beg the youth to give peace a chance by stopping their protests. “I commiserate with the families of those who lost their lives during the military shoot out. I pray that their struggle will not be in vain. Those whose properties were lost to the protest, I pray that God will recover for them all. “The #EndSARS protesters should please pave the way for dialogue with the government and stop arson and wanton destruction of government and private properties. Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora should know that it is the devil that is at work to destroy the destinies of the Nigerian youths by causing anarchy and threatening the unity of the country.” Abiara called on the citizens and religious leaders to keep praying for the unity of the country. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com