TONY OKAFOR A man, described as a native doctor, has allegedly chopped off the fingers of his son in Anambra State. The incident happened in Nimo in the Njikoka Local Government Area of the state. The herbalist identified as Gregory Enwaeso allegedly cut off the fingers of Abuchi Enwaeso. It was gathered that after cutting off the fingers, he locked up the victim in a container for four weeks before his act became public knowledge. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Haruna Mohammed, who confirmed the incident, said the suspect, 48, allegedly conspired with one of his other sons, Chinonso Enwaeso, 20, to perpetrate the act. He said the two had been arrested and investigations were ongoing on the matter, adding that the suspects chained the victim and abandoned him for four weeks in severe pains. Mohammed said, “About 1pm on Friday, police operatives attached to Nimo Division in collaboration with a local vigilance group arrested one Gregory Enwaeso, 48, of Egbengwu village Nimo in Njikoka LGA of Anambra State. READ ALSO: How I recruited my friends into human parts selling business — Man who exhumed corpses for N2m in Niger “The suspect allegedly conspired with his son, one Chinonso Enwaeso, 20 years of the same address (also arrested) and chopped off all the fingers of his biological son one Abuchi Enwaeso, 22, of the same address using a machete. “The suspects equally chained the victim and abandoned him for four weeks living him in severe pain. Police detectives visited the scene of the crime, photographed the victim and rushed him to the General Hospital Enugu-Ukwu for medical attention. “Consequently, the machete allegedly used in perpetrating the act was recovered as an exhibit and the suspects who voluntarily confessed to the dastardly act claimed that the victim allegedly absconded with the sum of N150,000 belonging to his father after organising  a party.’’ Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com