Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Deputy Governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi on Tuesday denied a media report that he was planning to resign from the Rotimi Akeredolu-led administration. Ajayi, who came third in the just concluded governorship election in the state, said some newspapers reported that he has been planning to tender his resignation letter this week but he described the report as falsehood and a figment of the imagination of the writers. In a statement issued by his media adviser, Mr Allen Sowore, the deputy governor, alleged that the report of his planned resignation was sponsored by the governor and his aides. The statement was titled ‘Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi will not resign’ The statement read, ” The deputy governor was elected together with Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, by the good people of Ondo State in 2016. That four years mandate given to both men will not end until 23rd February, 2021. “The news of his impending resignation is being sponsored by the governor through the propaganda machinery and machinations of Ondo State Ministry of Information as a subterfuge in preparation for a macabre plan to put the deputy governor’s forged signature on a prepared resignation letter. “The general public should be wary of these latest antics and desperation of the Governor to remove his Deputy by all means and at any cost illegally. “The people of Ondo State, who voted for Agboola Ajayi as Deputy Governor in 2016 have not asked him to resign or quit the government. Therefore, he has no reason whatsoever to relinquish the people’s mandate, which of course is limited by term/time, democratically bestowed upon him. However, the state Commissioner for Information Mr Donald Ojogo, said the governor knew nothing about the alleged newspaper publication of Ajayi’s planned resignation. READ ALSO: How power slipped from Jonathan before hand over — Reuben Abati Ojogo said, ” Ordinarily, it should be the height of insensitivity to dissipate energy on whatever the ZLP candidate may have said in respect of the above subject matter. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, will rather deepen efforts as regards the current National Concern of youths protests. “This is not the first time he would unveil untruths, not only about others, but about himself too. Forgery cannot, and has never been part of this government. The signature of anyone is too insignificant to be forged. It’s not in the character of Mr Governor or anyone in the government he heads. It is left for Agboola Ajayi to place his conscience before the Moral  Square as far as the claim about his position as deputy governor is concerned.”