Patrick Odey, Uyo A militant group, Niger Delta Liberation Force on Sunday demanded that the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, should account for all funds collected by his administration for the development of the 31 local government areas of the state. The group made the demand in a statement signed by its self-styled State Commander, “Capt.’’ Victor Eyoh. The statement read in part “We hereby demand that Mr. Udom Emmanuel should account for all the funds he has received so far particularly those meant for the development of the 31 local government areas and also refund the same to the respective local government areas without further delay. “Furthermore, Governor Udom Emmanuel should hands off the confiscation LG funds for whatever reasons. Such funds from the Federation Account should not be tampered with, rather all the 31 LGAs should be allowed to receive and utilize the same for the development of their councils. “We hereby also demand that the state government should set up, as a matter of urgency, the Akwa Ibom State Oil Producing Development Commission to manage the 13% Oil Derivation Funds as done in other States of the Niger Delta to ensure the adequate development of the oil producing areas which have been subjected to untold hardships, loss of means of livelihood, environmental hazards, poverty and marginalization these past years’’. However, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Iniobong Ememobong, who spoke on behalf of the governor said “Our Governor has never interfered with Local government funds. The chairmen handle their funds in the way they think best for the smooth running of their local governments specifically and the state in general. “The derivation fund is a part of resources accruing to the state which is managed by the Governor for the benefit of the state. ‘The militant group should rather be asking for the full control of the resources to the region producing minerals in the country.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  