JOHN ALECHENU, FRIDAY OLOKOR, ADELANI ADEPEGBA, LEKE BAIYEWU, BOLA BAMIGBOLA, DAUD OLATUNJI, JOHN CHARLES, PATRICK ODEY and GBENGA ODOGUN The looting spree aftermath the #EndSARS protest resumed on Saturday as hoodlums attacked more public and private property across the country, including Osun, Cross River and Plateau states. Hoodlums went on the rampage in Calabar, Cross River, on Saturday in spite of the 24-hour curfew imposed on Friday by the state Governor, Ben Ayade. The hoodlums burnt the Independent National Electoral Commission office on Marian Road on Friday night, vandalised the Nigeria Labour Congress secretariat, Department of Petroleum Resources and attacked Atakpa Police Station as well as the Ministry of Works warehouse. Similarly, the homes of two National Assembly members, Senator Gershom Bassey and Essien Ayi were attacked. Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba’s home was not spared either. The hoodlums also vandalised Niger Delta Development Commission office, Value Mart Supermarket, Cross River State Roll Back Malaria centre, Bulavaard joint, First Bank at 8 Miles, Nigeria Television Authority as well as West African Examination Council office on Murtala Mohammed Highway. INEC’s Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr Emmanuel Hart, confirmed the burning of INEC annex office on Marian Road and said the 24-hour curfew imposed by the governor made it difficult for the staff of the commission to take inventory of items destroyed in the inferno. In Osun, hoodlums on Saturday attacked many government establishments, politicians’ and several privately owned property in some parts of the state. The situation led to declaration of another 24-hour curfew by the governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, and subsequent takeover of major streets by soldiers in Osogbo, the state capital. The All Progressives Congress secretariat, Oyetola campaign offices in Iwo and Olorunda local government areas were looted by the hoodlums. The Executive Secretary, Osun Health Insurance Scheme, Dr. Niyi Oginni, said hoodlums carted away electrical appliances in the office. Also looted was Tuns Farm, a privately owned farm in Osogbo. Personal Assistant Political Affairs to the Senate spokesman, Mutairu Adetoye, also confirmed looting of a warehouse in Osogbo, where the lawmaker representing Osun Central in the Senate, Dr. Ajibola Basiru, kept some empowerment items. Adetoye further explained that the residence of Senator Basiru in Osogbo GRA was also plundered. Press Secretary to the Senator Adelere Oriolowo, representing Osun West, Niyi Isamotu, also confirmed the attack on the lawmaker’s residence in Iwo, as well as his farm, where he claimed livestock and cows were carted away. The Chairman, Irepodun Local Government Area, Ilobu, Mr. Abayomi Oyedeji, told our correspondent that the secretariat of the council, INEC office in the local government and his private residence were vandalised by the hoodlums. He added that the constituency office of the former deputy speaker of House of Representatives, Mr. Lasun Yusuf, in Osogbo was attacked. The residence of a former member representing Orolu State Constituency in the Osun State House of Assembly, Mr. Kamil Oyedele, was also vandalised. Some privately owned electronics stalls in Ogo Oluwa Area of Osogbo and stalls in Ayegbaju Market, Osogbo were equally looted. Prior to the spread of the attack, soldiers driving through streets in Osogbo, had told shop owners to close for the day. Meanwhile, Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola has announced another 24-hour curfew in the state starting from Saturday. Oyetola in a state broadcast on Saturday after an emergency security meeting said the curfew became necessary after the review and assessment of the security situation in the state. He said, “After an emergency security meeting this afternoon, where the whole situation was reviewed, we came to the inevitable conclusion to declare a curfew. Consequently, I hereby declare a 24-hour curfew across the whole state with immediate effect.” Following curfew declaration, soldiers had taken over streets in Osogbo and mounted barricades at strategic locations in the state capital. In Abuja on Saturday, suspected hoodlums stormed the FCT Social Welfare Secretariat, Area 10, Garki, in an attempt to loot a COVID-19 warehouse located in the area. Policemen and other security personnel guarding the store fired gunshots and tear gas to deter the youths while the traders at the UTC market, Area 10, Garki, Abuja and residents of the area quaked in fear. A similar situation was recorded in Bukuru, Jos South, Plateau State, on Saturday, where residents broke into warehouses where COVID-19 palliatives were stored. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  