Temiloluwa O’Peters The Nigerian Institute of Architects have announced their plans to design modern facilities for the Nigeria Police Force that would be conducive for policemen to discharge of their duties.  The NIA’s President, Sonny Echono, said in a statement, that the institute had noted the correlation between dilapidated police stations and barracks, unfit for human habitation, to the violent disposition of some personnel of the Nigeria Police. He stated that the NIA would therefore liaise with police authorities at the national and state levels to plan modern facilities for the force, as part of its support for the ongoing reforms of the Federal Government. Echono expressed concern with the state of buildings and facilities driving key sectors and stated plans to partner with governments at all levels and other built-environment professionals to commence a nationwide public audit. According to him, this would be for “all police colleges, stations, barracks and related facilities, prisons, courts, healthcare facilities, public schools, public squares, parks and gardens, cultural centres as well as sports facilities.” “The outcome of this exercise will be communicated to governments at all levels with a view to advising and guiding informed interventions aimed at addressing the fundamental shortcomings identified,” Echono said. He called for the gradual discontinuation of the current practice of providing separate and isolated barracks for both men and women of the Nigeria Police. According to him, it was a colonial hangover inconsistent with modern policing strategies, which seek integration with the community. He said, “We call for the gradual discontinuation of this policy and to replace it with the provision of long term concessionary house ownership schemes for personnel in the communities where they serve.” Echono empathised with members, especially graduate and student members, who had been victims of police harassment and brutality. He added that arrangements had been made to provide succor to members with confirmed cases of police harassment and brutality, under the institute’s Benevolent Fund. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  