Tony Okafor, Awka The traditional ruler of Alor in the Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State, MacAnthony Okonkwo, has allegedly been deposed. Okonkwo, who was deposed on Sunday by the Alor People’s Assembly, was accused of gross misconduct, including following an oil magnate to Abuja contrary to the state traditional rulers’ protocols. The state government had earlier suspended the monarch and 12 others, who embarked on the trip, from office for breaching protocols. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, who hails from the community, attended the meeting on Sunday, where the monarch was deposed. He commended his people for their peaceful conduct throughout the selection process of a new monarch, Chief Ebelechukwu Chukwumesili, for the community. He expressed confidence that the new monarch would rule the people well, restore peace and build bridges of friendship among the people, which he said eluded the community under the old order. Ngige said, “You can see the mood of the town’s people; joy all over the place, because it was a tortuous journey; but I told them to abide by the rule of law. Alor people spent seven years in court to get their town’s government legitimised. “And the town’s government put in process the election of a new Eze Di Ora Mma in accordance with the constitution of the Alor people. Everybody is happy with the development; I’m happy with my people. I’m a man for the rule of law.” Chukwumesili, who was presented to the Alor people by the Ifite section of the town, was adopted as the monarch-elect at a town hall meeting presided over by the President-General of the Alor People’s Assembly, Chief Uzoma Igbonwa. Chukwumesili was later crowned by the kingmaker of Uruezena village, Alor, Edwin Ezeoke, while the traditional staff of office was handed over to him by Eze Ofo of Alor, Chief Gibson Onyekaonwu of Umuoshi village. However, Okonkwo insisted that he was still the traditional ruler of the community, describing Chukwumesili’s enthronement as a sham. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com