Sodiq Oyeleke Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi, have urged youths protesting against police brutality and extortion in the country not to doubt the sincerity of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in disbanding the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. The governor made the appeal after his arrival from Ondo State where he was Chairman of the All Progressives Congress governorship campaign team. The governor also appealed to the #EndSARS protesters to be peaceful. He described the dissolution of SARS by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, as a victory for Nigerian youths. He said the protests showed that people have the right to express their views, adding that “the government meant business about the disbandment of SARS. We should not doubt the government’s sincerity. “The beauty of democracy is that people have the right to protest, to air their views, to speak out when things are not going right and I have identified with them. ”This is real democracy being played out. They have the right as our youths, as our citizens to correct and say we do not want this. ”Let me commend all of our youths that have come out in Lagos. I have been monitoring on a daily basis and it has been very peaceful. That is what we want, you can actually make your point in a peaceful and orderly manner.” Also, the Minister of Police Affairs in a tweet said the Buhari-led government was committed to disbanding SARS. He tweeted, “I urge Nigerians to see the disbandment of SARS, as government’s commitment to deepening relationship between Nigerians and the police, for better service delivery. Let’s continue to work together to secure our communities.” The PUNCH reports that protests have continued despite the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, announcement of the dissolution of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad. Adamu had also announced plans for a new arrangement to address anticipated policing gaps following the disbandment, and the constitution of an investigative team to probe the alleged cases of rights violations, among others. But the protesters argued that previous commitments announced by the force to ban SARS operatives and other personnel had no effect.