Peter Dada, Akure THE Ondo State All Progressives Congress has expelled a member of the state House of Assembly, Mrs Favour Tomowewo, over alleged anti-party activities during the last Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Tomowewo, who is the only female lawmaker in the Assembly, was among the nine members, who opposed the impeachment notice of the state Deputy Governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi, few months ago. It was gathered that since then, she had not been on good terms with the leadership of the Assembly, as well as some leaders of the party. She was also among the three lawmakers suspended by the House. But their suspension was  reversed by the state High Court. Her expulsion was contained in a letter dated October 12, 2020 and signed by the Chairman and the Secretary of Mahin Ward 4, Ilaje Constituency 2, Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State, Mr Olagoke Ajimuda and Mr Omosule Taid, respectively. The letter was titled, ‘Expulsion of Hon. Favour Tomowewo from the party’. The letter read in parts “After a thorough investigation of anti-party activities perpetrated by honourable member representing Ilaje Constituency 2 in Ondo State House of Assembly, Hon. Favour Tomowewo, the executive of her ward resolves to list her activities, resulting in expulsion from the party. “The atrocities include working against the interest of the party, APC, in all the political outings, directly mobilising and working for the Zenith Labour Party, contrary to the provision of the constitution of the APC, which sponsored her to the parliament.” The APC also accused the lawmaker of “exclusively funding/financing members and activities of the ZLP before and during the just concluded governorship election in the state and publicly adorning herself with materials bearing the logo and insignia of ZLP.” However, the embattled lawmaker was unavailable for comment on the matter as she replied the text sent to her saying, “I will get back to you;” but she never did as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com