Sodiq Oyeleke #EndSARS protesters who are Muslims on Friday observed their Juma’at prayers at Lekki toll gate and Lagos State House of Assembly road, Alausa. The PUNCH gathered that the protesters also observed the Friday prayers on the road in Abuja. At the Juma’at service held at Governor’s road in Alausa, some Christian protesters watched on while others provided cover for the praying Muslims. During the prayer session, other protest activities were suspended. One of the worshippers at Alausa, Ismail Adam, said the imam preached about love and unity. “The Imam spoke briefly about love and unity. He also encouraged us to persevere and pray for our leaders. We also prayed for Nigeria’s progress. After our prayers, everybody, including some Christians, chorused ‘aamin’,” Adam added. According to the protest schedule released on Thursday, Christians are also expected to worship at their protest grounds on Sunday. The schedule showed that the Sunday Service of DayStar’s Pastor Sam Adeyemi would be streamed live at Lekki toll gate. There have been protests in most parts of the country since Wednesday  last week by Nigerians, mostly youths, who called for disbanding of SARS, accusing the police squad of corruption, high-handedness  and harassment On Sunday, the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, disbanded the squad and on Tuesday, he set up the Special Weapons and Tactics Team to replace the disbanded SARS. Despite the disbanding of the squad, #EndSARS campaigners presented five demands to the Federal Government, which the later on Tuesday said it had accepted. The campaigners’  five demands include release of all persons arrested by the disbanded police unit and justice for victims of police brutality; setting up an independent body to oversee the investigation and prosecution of all reports of police misconduct (within 10 days); psychological evaluation of all disbanded SARS officers before they can be redeployed, and increase police salary so that they can be adequately compensated for protecting lives and property of citizens. But the protests took a fresh dimension on Wednesday when hoodlums bearing cutlasses and sticks attacked protesters in Lagos and Abuja.