Friday Olokor, Abuja WHOEVER ordered the killing of #EndSARS protesters in Lekki area of Lagos has crossed the red line, the Christian Association of Nigeria said on Thursday. The organisation condemned the dastardly and callous act, describing it as a minus for democracy and a scar to be remembered forever. The President of CAN, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, expressed the grief during a brief press conference in Abuja titled, ‘Unfortunate wastage of young Nigerians’ lives: CAN appeals for justice and calm.’ He advised the government to compile the list of those killed nationwide during the protest, especially those shot dead in Lekki and compensate their families as a way of identifying with them and ameliorating the pains of the irreparable loss. Ayokunle also recommended effective dialogues where all the relevant stakeholders, especially opinion leaders such as the traditional rulers, religious leaders and the leaders of different youth groups and civil societies would come together to proffer solution to the “great threat to our nationhood”. He said that although the military had denied being responsible for the Lekki killings despite the video and eyewitness accounts, “their presence at the scene of the incident did not help their matter.” “The government is as well advised to bring the trigger-happy uniformed men who killed the people to book to ensure that those whose lives were wasted got justice. “We send our condolences to all the families who had lost their loved ones prematurely in this unfortunate incident. We pray for the comfort of the Holy Spirit for them all. “Finally, we advise the government to compile the list of those killed nationwide during this protest, especially those shot dead on Tuesday and compensate their families as a way of identifying with them and ameliorating the pains of the irreparable loss,” the CAN President said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  