Sodiq Oyeleke The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has approved the full reopening of markets in the state. The Lagos Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Dr Wale Ahmed, made this known in a statement on Tuesday. The statement made available by the governor’s Senior Special Assistant on New Media, Gawat Jubril, noted that both food markets and non-food markets can reopen every day of the week. Before the announcement, food and non-food markets were allowed to operate three days a week – Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. The state government had regulated the opening of the markets to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The statement read in part, “The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has approved the full resumption of operations of both food markets and non-food markets. “They are now to open daily. “Mr Governor took the decision to further enhance trade and commerce and mitigate the hardship of recent times and ensure that Lagosians can recover fast. “Mr Governor also advised the continued observance of all safety protocols. “Traders and their customers must adhere strictly to the covid 19 protocols for their safety and the citizenry at large.” Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, on Monday, announced that the country recorded 119 new cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of infections in Nigeria to 62,111. The centre also reported two COVID-19-related deaths in the last 24 hours. The NCDC stated that Lagos reported the highest number of infections with 77 while the FCT reported 26 cases. Others are Plateau -nine; Edo -four; Oyo -two and Nasarawa -one. The NCDC said 57,571 people have been discharged while Nigeria has recorded a total of 1,132 deaths in 36 states and the FCT. It added that so far, 612,154 people have been tested since the first confirmed case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic was announced on Feb. 27. The agency advised Nigerians to maintain physical distance and wear masks to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spread. “Help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases in your community. It is very important to wash your hand frequently with soap under running water. “Let’s all #TakeResponsibility by ensuring hygienic practices to keep ourselves and loved ones safe and healthy,” it advised.