Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State House of Assembly, on Monday, screened a former President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Waheed Odusile, and the Vice-Chancellor, Tai Solarin University of Education, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu, as commissioner-nominees for Information and Education, Science and Technology, respectively. The Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, commended the choice of the two nominees by Governor Dapo Abiodun. Oluomo described Odusile and Arigbabu as round pegs in round holes. The Speaker, however, challenged them to justify the confidence reposed in them by the governor by deploying their relevant skills and wealth of experience in their respective fields in turning around the fortunes of their respective sectors for the better. According to Oluomo, the nominees, if confirmed and sworn in by the governor, should put in place within the limit of time, strategise towards adding value to the developmental efforts of the present administration in their areas of influence. He urged them to lay emphasis on a sustained and mutually beneficial two-way communication system as well as qualitative education at all levels. Responding, Odusile emphasised the essence of effective information management to build and sustain symbiotic relationship among the three arms of government and between the government and the governed. He pointed out the need to further propagate all the laudable developmental programmes and projects of the government. He gave an assurance that the experience he had in journalism over the years would be put to use in managing the information and communication sector, especially having served at the apex of his profession in the nation and Africa. In his response, Arigbabu pledged that the education sector under his watch would be restructured to ensure increased students’ enrolment in public schools. He said technology would be deployed to achieve seamless teaching and learning  in schools with the introduction of Education Management Information System to improve data gathering and assessment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 