The Governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, has said the major focus of his second term administration will be to re-direct the state towards a zero-oil economy. He urged voters not to sell their votes in Saturday’s governorship election in the state. He also said all machinery has been put into place and barring last-minute hitch, electricity will be restored to all towns and villages in the Ondo South Senatorial District before the end of his first term in February 2021. He said, “By the grace of God, the Sunhine Egg Powder currently belong constructed at Emure-Ile, Owo, shall be completed before the 100 days of my second term. That company will employ 5,000 people and all the current and prospective poultry owners in Ondo State shall have a ready-made market to sell their products. “Throughout the world, have you ever seen a state or region or nation that has a seaport that is poor? By the grace of God, Ondo Port Declaration shall be made before my 100 days in office, and that marks the end of extreme poverty in our state. “I appeal to the people of this state to vote for me. I want to complete the Ikare-Akoko township dualisation. I do not want it abandoned. I want to complete other road projects across the state. I want the road from Araromi in Ilaje to Lekki in Lagos to be completed under my reign. “My major interest is to leave an Ondo State that has zero reliance on the oil economy. That is what I am preparing this state for. I urge the people of this state to choose between enduring legacy and stomach infrastructure. I want to work for today, tomorrow, and forever. I have started it already. “By the grace of God, power shall be restored to all the towns and communities in Ondo South before the end of my first term. The agreement has been signed and Niger/Delta Development Commission is involved. “We are building a prosperous state. The election is not about me but about the future of our state. Late Olusegun Agagu started this investment and industrialisation drive but we didn’t allow him, we voted for the people with sweet mouth, now I am restarting all over again, please let’s vote wisely on Saturday.”