Friday Olokor, Abuja The European Union on Wednesday warned Nigeria not to take the democracy it now enjoys for granted. The organisation also stressed the need for Nigeria to “increase the participation of youths in governance building on the momentum of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run campaign.” The EU Ambassador and Head of its Delegation (Nigeria and ECOWAS), Ketil Karlsen, said this during the orientation and induction programme for Legislative Interns organized by the Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre in Abuja. While calling on youths to contribute towards strengthening Nigeria’s democracy, Karlsen said the programme was an opportunity given to youths by the National Assembly to engage actively in securing a participatory process for democracy in Nigeria. He said “The consolidation of democracy must not be taken for granted anywhere, not within the European borders, certainly not in Africa or Nigeria either; it is something that must be developed. “Looking at the growing population of Nigeria, about 60 per cent are young, it is really (not) strange to see how the National Assembly is opening up the doors for the youths. “Another set of youth ambassadors from different states are taking part in the process of what is the bedrock of democracy of any democratic society in the National Assembly. So, this is really a vital signal of engagement from the Parliament, one example of how we work together to support democracy in Nigeria.” Speaking at the event, the Executive Director of Policy Legislative Advocacy Centre, Clement Nwankwo, stressed the importance of youth involvement in the legislative process. He said the 10 weeks long programme seeks to improve participants’ knowledge about the legislature and its role in democracy. The Clerk to the National Assembly, Olatunde Ojo, represented by his Special Adviser (Media and Labour) Austin Adesoro, said the legislature was passionate about conducting its responsibility. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 