Ade Adesomoju, Tobi Aworinde and Daud Olatunji The National Human Rights Commission has appointed a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Suleiman Galadima, to head its fresh 11-member Independent Investigative Panel on the activities of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad. But a former Chairman of the NHRC, Chidi Odikalu, has faulted the panel, saying the Executive Secretary of the commission lacked the power to constitute it. According to Odinkalu, in a series of tweets on Saturday, such a panel can only be constituted by the commission’s Governing Council, which the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), has yet to reconstitute after disbanding it in 2015. He cited Rule 79(1) of the commission’s Standing Orders and Rules of Procedure, challenging the Executive Secretary to say “from where he derives the power to constitute or appoint an Inquiry of any sort under the instruments of the Commission.” Odinkalu stated, “The Executive Secretary of @NhrcNigeria lacks powers to set up an inquiry under the amended NHRC Act. That’s the province of a Governing Council. @MBuhari has refused to constitute council. The ES isn’t council. This is clearly ultra vires.” The panel’s membership list seen by one of our correspondents also contained the name of a former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr Ibrahim Lamorde. The membership of the panel set for inauguration next week also included Abdulrahaman Yakubu, Yemi Ademolakun, Chioma Chuka, Prof Ayo Atsenuwa, Tijani Mohammed, and Dr Uju Agomoh. Others were Dr Garba Tetengi (SAN), Feyikemi Abudu, John Aikpokpo Martins, and Hilary Ogbonna, who will serve as the Secretary of the panel. Aside from the chairman of the panel, the rest of the members of the pan are representatives of the civil society, the NHRC, the Nigerian youth, the Police Service Commission, the Nigerian Police Force; the Nigerian Bar Association, and academia. However, Abudu, a prominent youth at the forefront of the #EndSARS protests, took to Twitter on Friday to distance herself from the panel. She tweeted, “This is quite the surprise. @TonyOjukwuO, the head of NHRC, called me today and I politely asked him to send me the information to look at later and I would get back to him. I have not even read the information about the panel I’m supposed to be on and my name is already in public. “I don’t understand. Won’t I even respond before you decide to put me somewhere? I called him to ask why and it’s ‘oh well.’ This is not how you do things. They don’t even know whether I would have said yes or no because I have not even read the thing. “It’s not even about whether one should be there or not. How do you want to begin the conversation without my consent? What happens if I don’t want to accept it?” One of our correspondents also obtained a copy of the ‘Call for Petitions/Notice of Public Hearing’ signed by the Executive Secretary of the commission, Mr Tony Ojukwu, and due to be sent out at any moment. The notice gave a deadline of October 31, 2020 for the submission of petitions at any of the commission’s office in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. Meanwhile, Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has set up a Judicial Panel of Investigation on alleged cases of police brutality against citizens of the state. The governor also constituted a Special Security and Human Rights Committee and Human Rights Complaints Office with terms of reference on the committees’ mandates. Abiodun, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, announced the appointment of retired Justice Solomon Olugbemi as Chairman of the panel, which he said was in line with the resolution of the National Economic Council at its meeting on Thursday. Also, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Friday, said his administration had set up a panel to look into cases of human rights abuses and brutality by the disbanded squad. Fayemi, who addressed #EndSARS protesters in the Fajuyi area of Ado Ekiti, stated, “In line with the recommendation of the NEC, I have today constituted a panel of enquiry and restitution for victims of SARS-related abuses in the state. “The panel will look at all verifiable cases of SARS brutality and fatality and ensure offending SARS officers are identified and prosecuted appropriately, while victims or their families are duly compensated.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com