Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt One person was allegedly killed, while some were injured in Oyigbo, Oyigbo Local Government Area of Rivers State as troops took over the area. It was learnt that the victim, a commercial motorcyclist, was hit by a stray bullet and reportedly died before he could be taken to the hospital for treatment. The soldiers and anti-riot police operatives had taken over the area since Thursday night over fears of fresh attacks, with many residents saying they could not sleep. When contacted, the spokesman for the state police command, Nnamdi Omoni, said normalcy had returned to the area after the deployment of security operatives. He, however, did not confirm the killing. Residents of Oyigbo have remained indoors following a 24-hour curfew imposed by the state government, but there were reports that hoodlums burnt some property, including shops in the early hours of Friday. Rivers outlaws IPOB, places N50m bounty on suspect The Rivers State Government has reinforced its ban on the activities of the Indigenous People of Biafra in the state in line with the proscription order by the Federal Government. Governor Nyesom Wikestated this in a state broadcast on Friday night, saying henceforth, no form of procession or agitation by the group or any of its affiliates would be allowed to take place in any part of the state. This is as the governor declared one Mr Stanley Mgbere wanted for leading members of the banned IPOB to cause the recent violence and destruction of lives and property in the Oyigbo LGA, saying a ransom of N50m would be given to any person with useful information that would lead to his arrest and prosecution. This was contained in a statement issued by the governor’s Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, and made available to journalists on Friday night. Wike said the state government reached the conclusion, having observed that the activities of the proscribed group were not just dangerous to lives and property, but also constituted a clear and present threat to the existential interest and aspirations of Rivers State and all its people. He said, “Security agencies are hereby directed to stop any form of procession or agitation by IPOB in Rivers State or any part thereof and arrest and prosecute any person or group that identifies with the membership or activities of IPOB in the state. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com