Joseph Olaoluwa Following the ongoing protests against police brutality in the country, airfares on domestic routes have increased. The increase in the price regime was reflected by several carriers on weekend flights for one-way trips from Lagos to Abuja. Before now, the cost of flights ranged from N27,000 to N38,000 depending on the class of ticket purchased. However, Arik Air recorded N43, 944 for economy and N99,176 for business class tickets on Sunday, according to checks by our correspondent. For Aero contractors, passengers were expected to cough out between N34,310 and N87,812 for flexible economy and business class respectively. Dana Air was not left out as it prices ranged for N36,000 to N42,300 for economy Saver while Economy Flexible stood at 47,000. Prices on Air Peace ranged from N38,800 to N60,000 for economy flexi while it recorded N80,000 for business for flights on October Sunday. A potential passenger who identified himself simply as Wilson who sought a flight to Abuja told the PUNCH that the increase in airfares would make him settle for a bus instead. He said, “I will rather take a bus to Abuja, seeing the increase in flight tickets.” Operators, however, argued that the price increase was not as a result of the ongoing protests which have been the cause of gridlock across major highways in the country. Speaking in a telephone interview, spokesperson for Dana Air, Kingsley Ezenwa, said the increase in fares was not related to the planned protest. He said, “We are always saying book early to get the best fares. We also have a progressive fare regime, whereas the flights are getting full, the fares will be increasing gradually. That is not to say there was a deliberate fare increase over the weekend. This is normal industry metrics.” Spokesperson of Air Peace, Stanley Olisa, said, “That is our fare. The fares differ. It was not increased because of anything. Nothing must has influenced it.” Aviation analyst, Olumide Ohunayo, said the spike in fares over the weekend could be linked to an increase in demand in terms of flight activities. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 