Daud Olatunji,Abeokuta Angry protesters on Wednesday killed the Divisional Crime Officer, DSP Augustine Ogbeche, and set ablaze a police station  in the Atan-Ota Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State . The protesters also inflicted injuries on the Divisional Police Officer, SP Sikiru Olugbenga, whose whereabouts were unknown. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said one civilian also lost his life to the violence while another police station at Obada-Oko in the Ewekoro Local Government Area, which had been serving as a zonal  intervention office for the defunct  Special Anti-Robbery Squad was attacked. Oyeyemi said, “The hitherto peaceful protest embarked upon by youths across Ogun State is unfortunately taking a dangerous violent dimension as some people with ulterior motives are now using the opportunity to commit all sorts of heinous crimes. “Early this (Wednesday)  morning, the protesters went to Atan-Ota and set the police station there ablaze and subsequently murdered the DCO, DSP Augustine Ogbeche, in cold blood. “A civilian also died in the process while some arms were carted away. They also inflicted serious injury on the DPO, SP Sikiru Olugbenga, whose whereabouts is yet unknown. “Also in Abeokuta, some groups of boys attacked Obada-oko divisional headquarters and vandalized it.” The PPRO however said in view of the attacks on the police and their stations, the  Commissioner of Police Ogun State Command, Edward Ajogun, had appealed  to the youths to eschew violence and embrace peace. The police boss, according to the PPRO, said, “The youths are reminded that since the commencement of the protests the police have been nice and civil to them even when some of our men were injured and our stations damaged. “We even went ahead and released all the 36 suspects we arrested. However, if in the course of handling the protests anybody feels offended, we plead understanding and not retaliatory measures, including killing and maiming policemen and burning and damaging police stations. “We will ensure that justice is served any aggrieved person.  Please and please let us continue to embrace peace rather than violence.” “The command sincerely appeals to the youths. Parents and guardians are also enjoined to help rein in their children and wards.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com