Ife Ogunfuwa World leaders have expressed their commitment to reskilling people with in-demand skills for economic recovery post COVID-19. The leaders from government, business and civil society highlighted strategies to close employment gaps and promote social inclusion in their countries during the Jobs Reset Summit hosted by World Economic Forum. The International Trade Union Confederation and others called for the creation of a Global Social Protection Fund for those hardest hit by the COVID-19 crisis. The General-Secretary, International Trade Union Confederation, Sharan Burrow, said, “About half of the world’s people have no social protection or any sense of security.” The Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Royal DSM, Geraldine Matchett, highlighted how technology could help to enable fairer access to jobs. “The COVID crisis has shown us that it’s very possible to change the definition and format of work,” he said. Unilever’s Chief Executive Officer, Alan Jope, referred to COVID-19 causing job crisis but urged action on two further crises, climate change and the nature of capitalism itself. “We have a tech-savvy younger generation, and the challenge now is how do we equip them more,” Minister of International Cooperation of Egypt, and a Co-Chair of the Closing the Gender Gap Accelerator in Egypt, Rania Al-Mashat, said. The Minister for Development and Investment, Greece, Adonis Georgiadis, said closing the skills and employment gap had never been so urgent and vital to the economy and society as countries recover from the pandemic. According to him, the Accelerator in Greece initiative will work with major private-sector companies and Regeneration, the local coordinator, to build partnerships that would mobilise investment for job creation and reskill the workforce for the jobs of tomorrow. He explained that Georgia had established a new platform, Skills Georgia, under the Accelerator, a public-private agency run as a non-profit organisation. The Deputy Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Georgia, Tamar Kitiashvili, explained that the new platform would allow the new generation to become more innovative to create more start-ups, technology and innovations. At the summit, three new countries – Georgia, Greece and Turkey – joined Bahrain, Brazil, India, Oman, Pakistan, South Africa, and the United Arab Emirates to close skills and employment gaps in their countries. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com