Nike Popoola Leaders of Anegbette and Udochi communities, two towns badly hit by floods in South Uneme Clan of Etsako Central local government area of Edo State have called for urgent government intervention in the provisions of relief materials and relocation in order to avoid a major food crisis and outbreak of diseases. This was contained in a statement on Friday titled ‘Flooding: Edo communities, Rep, seeks government assistance, warns of IDPs crisis.” The President, Anegbette Development Association, Emma Okolo and National President of Udochi Development Union, Mr. Abubakar Aleobua, said in the statement that the havoc wreaked on the riverine communities had left thousands of their people displaced from their ancestral homes, while many now took shelter under trees. The two leaders said only the prompt intervention by the government and concerned bodies would bring relief and succour to the people whose farmlands and agricultural produce worth hundreds of millions of naira had been destroyed. Okola stated, “Hundreds of houses in Anegbette have submerged. Our farm produce, mostly rice, cassava, yam, pepper, tomatoes and others have been washed away. “Our people are at the mercy of God as we speak. “The predicament of the people right now is beyond what anyone can describe. Our plea goes to not only the government but also humanitarian organisations and international bodies to come to our aide.” Aleobua lamented that the only IDP camp in the local government area located Ogomere was not easily accessible and called for the establishment of one closer to the community. He said, “Our people are going through untold hardship as many have been without food and adequate clothing for days. “The community school buildings, our health centre and places of worship are under the waters. “The government must declare an emergency in these areas and send NEMA and sister agencies to visit affected communities and provide them with relief materials, else we may witness a severe health crisis.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 