Agric-tech platforms are the new face of modern-day Agriculture. There are currently over 70 Agric-tech platforms in the country, promising benefits ranging from considerable dividends to huge gains to eager investors in various agriculture endeavours. These platforms survive mostly on crowdfunding. That is, they seek funds from willing investors and offer them returns on their investments, ranging from single digits to double digits. These funds are expected to be invested in Agricultural projects that is expected yield the required returns to pay all the stakeholders (farmers, investors and Agric-tech platform owners) involved in these business relationship at the end of a production cycle. It is now common to see sleek advert asking you to invest in agriculture in Nigeria pop up on your screen whenever you are online. A Google search on the keywords “invest in agriculture,” will return a lot of results mostly from the Agric-tech platforms. Their promise is simple: investors sponsor farms and get guaranteed returns without having to leave their day jobs. However, hard times have recently hit the industry, especially with the advent of COVID-19 which has disrupted most business operations, prompting widespread default in meeting their payment obligations. Angry investors have since taken to social media to express their grievances; accusing some of the platforms of failing to deliver on returns. In a recent article published by an online tech news platform, Tech Cabal, feedbacks from victims, such as Victor, who works in the healthcare sector, paints a picture of despair and anger from failed promises. Victor said he invested in one of the Agric-tech platforms, which promised a 40% yield on his investment due on May 30, 2020. However, the said platform told investors in March about a possible delay in payments. After an email in March, Victor said the Agric-tech platform did not reach out again until June 1, 2020. In an email sent on the said date, the company stated that it would only repay the capital which he invested. He will not receive any returns on investment. Despite the change in terms, Victor said the platform is giving “ambiguous and unclear timelines” on when he will receive his capital. The ambiguity is at odds with what the Agric-tech Company says on its website. Its website says that all farm projects have insurance “to mitigate any unforeseen risks that could lead to the loss of the sponsor’s capital.” But is this the truth? Victor’s case is one of several disappointing incidences recorded in the past week. In recent times, there have been many misconceptions surrounding the partnership between Agric-tech platforms and insurance companies. Questions like “Are my investments insured?” keep recurring. Insurers like Leadway Assurance Company Limited, which partners with over 30 Agric-tech platforms, has on several occasions provided education as regards these questions. The foremost insurer recently issued a disclaimer, reiterating the company’s position on delayed Agric investment returns. It stated that the company’s contractual obligation is limited to the Agric-tech platform and not their individual investors. Leadway only provides insurance cover for the farm assets of its insured Agric-tech platforms. The insurer’s statement also clarified that it provides cover to these platforms using various Agric-based, bespoke insurance solutions for the risks to their engaged farms, and other farm assets against perils agreed in the contractual insurance policy document issued. In other words, Leadway Assurance does not, in any way, guarantee the safety of investors’ funds as promised to by the Agric-tech platforms. Investor’s funds and the returns thereof are not covered as one of the risks of the insurance policy Leadway Assurance provides to these Platforms. Leadway Assurance therefore does not cover the risk associated with the investor’s capital and the associated returns on investment. As an investor, we understand that due diligence might be somewhat extensive, but there are fundamental steps to take. First, seek for a broader explanation on the extent of coverage the insurance policy publicised by these platforms offer. Also, understand that your investments are not covered by insurance and if any platform is telling you otherwise, reach out to our professionals for advice and necessary clarifications. We suggest that you read clearly and understand the terms and conditions attached to the investment contract with the Agric-tech platform and ensure there is no ambiguity whatsoever. Investors may also wish to seek further advice and clarity from legal experts before investing. To access the full list of Leadway Agric-tech partners and learn more about its terms of engagement with them, reach out to their professional advisors via the company’s virtual communication channels – 08129997115, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from an experienced insurance advisor by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me       