Adeoye Oyewole This topic came up in my mind after I read an article, titled, ‘Are Nigeria politicians crazy’? What is quite obvious concerning Nigeria is that the country is blessed with natural resources and some people add that we are blessed with human resources, a point I disagree with! The fact that we have numerous professionals, technologists and even academics who possibly may be literate but obviously not educated, hence does not confer on Nigeria the status of being blessed with human resources. The value of the human resource in any society is the caliber of mental capital it can deliver. We have acquired some knowledge in a manner that did not interrogate our culture hence the disconnect between our elites’ claim to education and their leadership failures in all ramifications. Our politicians do not have a mental illness; they have only learnt to take advantage of our mediocre cultural software to express their greed. We parade a culture that immunises the leader from scrutiny and has no provision for feedback from the polity. It is amazing how modern technology through computer software programming controls huge, sophisticated and massive equipment. Those heavy machines with their complex parts move together in synchrony towards a particular function as programmed by computer software. All nations’ have cultural software that programmes their sociopolitical behavior. Education, contact with other civilisations and other means of inculcation of new ideas are only external to the native cultural software of the people. This is in consonance to the principles of socialisation. No race is superior to the other, but the difference lies in the degree that the native culture of such nations has been interrogated such that destructive components are expunged in the face of universal best practices. This is the mandate of mental capital development as it is being canvassed by the developed counties. Rather than single out the politicians as being sick; I locate our cultural software as being pathological which does not excuse the polity. Our poverty derives not from the scarcity of natural and human resources but from lack of mental capital. We have aggregates of literate persons constituting the elite class in various sectors of our society who had cumulatively mismanaged our resources over the years because of mediocre mental development. Our pre-colonial cultural software concerning leadership is defective. As a matter of fact, it is more of ‘rulership’ than leadership where the elite class assumes the status of an unquestionable deity.  If the ruler deems fit to collect your wife or farmland so be it. This ‘rulership’ style laid the foundation for contemporary leadership failures and poverty. There is definitely no opportunity for the development of mental capital which is a resource that grows as questions are asked and decisions are taken for the ultimate good of all and not a select few. In our pre-colonial societies; there is no clear-cut facility for feedbacks emanating from the masses to challenge leadership and make them do the right thing. The colonial masters only banished the traditional institutions and imposed their own native colonial masters in all sectors of the society either through a military template and a democratic arrangement. This impunity and recklessness of our leaders supported by our cultural software is responsible for our poor infrastructural development and most painfully poor mental capital development. The caliber and the quality of the mental capital of a nation eventually determine the prosperity of that nation. Mental capital is the resource that confers on us the resilience to effectively cope with the challenges of life. It is the resource that empowers individuals to contribute effectively to society and also to experience a high quality of life. This mandate transcends the narrow clinical paradigms of the psychiatrists as it challenges all social institutions to contribute to the mental capital development agenda. Leaders of those institutions should expunge stifling ‘rulership’ tendencies and open up the space towards mental capital development by releasing the potential embedded in the human capital towards the ultimate goal of wholesome development. The family as the most basic unit of society should be led in a way that the children are empowered to give their best to society. A good number of children taking to behavior injurious to health can be traced to families that are mismanaged. Our religious leaders should help to banish destructive myths, taboos and superstitions that frustrate mental capital development. Every sector of society should have this agenda in mind as we march towards building a great nation. Our political leaders should endeavor to ensure that they take decisions that will create an enabling environment for mental capital development and banish the rise in mental illness in our society. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 