Sodiq Oyeleke The Osun State governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has imposed a 24-hour curfew on the state. This is coming barely 24 hours after suspending an initial curfew imposed on the state over the unrest caused by hoodlums. The governor made the announcement in a statewide broadcast on Saturday. Oyetola said the curfew, which takes immediate effect, is indefinite. According to him, the curfew was reintroduced to “prevent the current state of anarchy from degenerating into a large-scale breakdown of law and order.” He said, “Government notes with huge disappointment, the abuse of the suspension, a day ago, of the 24-hour curfew earlier declared in the State to forestall the breakdown of law and order and protect the lives and property of citizens and residents. “It is unfortunate that hoodlums and criminals have taken advantage of government’s action to wantonly loot government and private property, including private business premises and homes in several parts of the State this morning. This is unacceptable and it stands condemned. “After an Emergency Security Meeting this afternoon, where the whole situation was reviewed and assessed, we came to the inevitable conclusion to declare a curfew. Consequently, I hereby declare a 24-hour curfew across the whole State with immediate effect. “This inevitable conclusion was reached to avert the continuation of this irresponsible act, especially now that the genuine protesters have suspended their protest earlier today. “My fellow citizens, the declaration of a 24-hour curfew, which will be indefinite until further notice, is to prevent the current state of anarchy from degenerating into large-scale breakdown of law and order. “For the avoidance of doubt, there shall be no vehicular (including Okada) or human movement during this period. Only those on essential duties will be permitted to move around. These persons too must carry with them proper identification to allow access. “Violators of the curfew rules shall be prosecuted in line with the extant laws of the State. “I enjoin all our citizens and residents to return home and remain in their homes until further notice. “I assure them of their safety during this period, as always, as security operatives have been deployed in all the parts of the State to restore and maintain law and order within the precinct of the law.”