Edward Nnachi and Tony Okafor Chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, has called for calm while urging Igbos all over the country to shun all forms of protests. Umahi, made the call, on Saturday, while taking stock of property destroyed in the state by protesting youths, on Saturday. He said “I appeal to our people everywhere in the country not to join the protest again. Do not allow anybody to label this peaceful protest that happened but hijacked by hoodlums an Igbo affair.” The governor also assured all ethnic groups living in South-East including the Yoruba to go about their businesses very peacefully, saying “If there is any threat to any of them, they should immediately let our Governors know and the security agencies.” Umahi said “I want to tell our people everywhere in this country to remain where they are. They should remain very peaceful, not to join any protest. I saw online yesterday, where one man, that is not even in the country who claims to be from a very peaceful loving ethnic group of the Yoruba extraction, threatened Igbos in Lagos. And I want to tell Igbos in Lagos and everywhere in this country to ignore him, as that does not represent the voice of the totality of the Yorubas. “I want to assure every ethnic group living in the South-East including the Yoruba to go about their businesses very peacefully. If there is any threat to any of them, they should immediately let our Governors and the security agencies know.” He appealed to #EndSARS protesters to give peace a chance and give the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the benefit of the doubt on his promised reforms. Speaking in a similar vein, the Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra enjoined Igbos to shun all forms of violence. This was contained in a statement signed by its leader, Uchenna Madu, in Awka, on Sunday. He said “MASSOB as the mother that gave birth to all other pro-Biafra organisations advises all pro-Biafra agitators irrespective of their group to desist from actions that will lead to avoidable death and shedding of innocent blood. “Demonstration and expression of our inalienable rights are constitutional and legal but it must be within the confines of the principles of nonviolence. “We shall never engage in activities or actions that will give fertile ground for the soldiers of our oppressors to commit massacre on our people.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  