Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The Nigerian Institute of Public Relations has condemned the shootings at the Lekki toll plaza on Tuesday. The President of the NIPR, Mukhtar Sirajo, said this in a speech at a press conference in Abuja on Thursday. He said, “The Nigerian Institute of Public Relations condemns unequivocally the reported shooting of protesters at the Lekki toll gate in Lagos on Wednesday. The resort to the use of arms against unarmed protesters who were doing nothing other than exercising their guaranteed rights to dissent was against all known tenets of decency, civilisation and democracy and therefore unacceptable. “The reported denial by the Nigerian Army, of the complicity of its officers in the dastardly act, will make more meaning if an immediate inquiry is launched to ascertain who the perpetrators were.” The NIPR boss also condemned the acts of hooliganism and arson that ensued. Sirajo stated, “We equally condemn in no uncertain terms the resort to the hooliganism that ensued afterwards which led to arson, and looting of both public and private properties. It is our firm belief, that the lawlessness has nothing to do with the original objectives of the #EndSARS movement, which we believe to be simply a cry against impunity and a pitch for good governance.”
The NIPR boss identified with the objectives of the genuine #EndSARS protesters as it pertains to police reforms. He also welcomed the scrapping of SARS by the police and called for a re-orientation of the police. “It (NIPR) therefore identifies with the #EndSARS’ objective, which beyond the hashtag, is a condemnation of impunity, ruthless conducts, and the general lack of respect to due processes by some sections of the nation’s law enforcement architecture, as well as a call for the reform of same. “The decision by the government to dissolve the SARS, though a step in the right direction, we believe in itself is not a solution to the problem. Far reaching reforms in the nation’s policing architecture that includes review of recruitment process, improvement in welfare and general reorientation from top to bottom, among others, would also go a long way in regenerating citizens’ confidence in the police,” Sirajo said.