Dayo Ojerinde A retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Sunday Akintan, has called for a reform of the country’s judicial system. Akintan, on Wednesday, at the unveiling of his book, titled, ‘Reminiscences: My Journey Through Life,’ said it was unfortunate that cases linger for years in Nigerian courts without being resolved. He said, “When I was a trial judge, we used to have four assize sessions in a year where all the cases we had then will be listed in court and cleared. I was a high court judge for about 14 years before being posted to the court of appeal and later to the Supreme Court. “When I retired and became a member of the National Judicial Council for five years, there I learned that many of the Chief Judges didn’t know what assize session was. That is why we have a congestion of cases in our courts today. “I have even suggested in a paper that the modern thing is that in big prisons like Kirikiri Maximum Security Correctional Centre, courts can be built there, magistrates and judges will be sitting there daily. With that, there will be no congestion in our prisons.”  The book reviewer, Mr Azu Ishiekwene, said the book was a legacy for not just the author but many libraries. The memoir may not be as grand as Rev. Samuel Johnson’s The History of the Yoruba, or as thematic as Saburi Biobaku’s The Origin of the Yoruba, both of which offer profound insights into Yoruba culture and history, from a different genre. “His literary style, like his profession, is conservative; the next edition could use tighter edits. Also, when he touches on politically charged subjects like the Supreme Court’s decision on the Attorney General of the Federation and others v. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar; his encounter with Justice Atinuke Ige after Chief Bola Ige was murdered; or his role in the trial of Justice Walter Onnoghen as Chairman of the Preliminary Complaints Assessment Committee of the National Judicial Council, the journalist in me is left asking for more details and insights,” Ishiekwene said. The Bishop of Lagos Anglican Diocese, Bishop Humphrey Olukamaiye, and a former Chairman of Punch Nigeria Limited, Chief Ajibola Ogunsola, were part of the dignitaries present at the presentation of the book. The book presentation was held on Wednesday at the Bay Lounge Hall, Lekki, Lagos State.