Peter Dada, Akure The National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, Mr Uche Secondus, has called on the people of Ondo State to vote out the ruling All Progressives Congress, saying the party has failed the country. Secondus said the PDP was determined to oust the government of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, come next Saturday. He stated this on Wednesday at the final campaign of the PDP held in Ondo City, the headquarters of Ondo West Local Government Area of the state. Secondus blamed the APC and its supporters for the recurring violence in Ondo State, adding that Akeredolu and his supporters were already jittery as the PDP candidate, Eyitayo Jegede was gaining popularity on a daily basis across the state. He urged the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agencies to play the game according to the rule, charging them to do their duties professionally without interference. He said, “Like it was done in Edo State recently, I want to appeal to the people to protect your votes and resist any attempt by the ruling party to rig the election.” The Chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council for Ondo Election and Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, assured the people that Jegede would win the election and bring the dividends of democracy for the benefit of all. The Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, asked the people to reject the APC with their votes, lamenting that the ruling party had inflicted unbearable hardship on Nigerians. The PDP governors and other state and national leaders of the party were  present at the rally , including governors of Rivers , Bayelsa, Enugu, Abia Zamfara States Nyesom Wike, Douye Diri,  Ifeanyi Ogwuanyi, Okezie Ikpeazu, and Bello Mohammed, respectively. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 