OLALEYE ALUKO The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, on Saturday, said Nigeria was in perpetual conflict and the National Assembly must begin the process of returning the country to regionalism to tackle the rising unrest in the country. Adams stated this in a statement by his media aide, Mr Aderemi Kehinde, noting that the #EndSARS protests which had spread nationwide in the last two weeks was an opportunity for the youth to air their views on national matters. The release was titled, ‘#EndSARS: Gani Adams sues for peace, urges FG to embrace call for regionalism.’ The Yoruba leader commiserated with the families of those that lost their loved ones in the course of the struggle, adding that those that were killed by the bullets of the Nigerian Army “would surely be remembered as heroes.” Adams said, “The right to protest is guaranteed by the Constitution of Nigeria and supported by various United Nations and African charters on peoples and human rights. Those in power today are products of protests by the people of this great country. “Nigeria is a country in perpetual conflict; I call on the National Assembly to initiate the process of returning the country to regionalism to stem the wave of unrest. Our leaders are adamant in defending a reckless and self-defeatist system. “I condemn the killings of some of the peaceful protesters at the Lekki tollgate. I also stand with the families of those killed. The deaths were avoidable. The people who lost their lives could have been saved. There was no reason for the vicious attacks on innocent citizens. It is, therefore, very important for the Federal Government to unravel those behind the killings.” Adams, in the statement, said those who hijacked the peaceful protests did so for selfish interests, and that the Lagos State Government must investigate the events that played out during the last three weeks. He added, “The City Hall, Lagos Television and many others are legacies of Chief Obafemi Awolowo. We condemn, in the strongest terms, this reckless and coordinated attempt to destroy the Yoruba economic birthright. “There must be a thorough investigation into the killings and wanton destruction of properties in Lagos and the government must ensure that the perpetrators of these dastardly acts face the full weight of the law.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  