Temiloluwa O’Peters The Chief Executive Officer of World Federation of Exchanges, Nandini Sukumar and his NASDAQ Exchange’s counterpart, Adena Friedman, will appraise the role of the Nigerian financial market towards economic development. A statement issued on Tuesday by the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers confirmed the CEOs as speakers at the 2020 Stockbrokers’ Conference. Also on the list of key speakers to dissect the funding gaps in Nigeria’s budget and the capital market option is the Head Solution Delivery Core Assets, Johannesburg Stock Exchange, Robin Tucker. According to the institute, Sukumar will lead discussion on ‘The Nigerian Stock Exchange’s demutualisation: Demystifying the big picture’ while Friedman and Tucker are among the discussants. The CIS President, Olatunde Amolegbe, said the overriding objective for the conference was to provide direction for both fiscal and monetary authorities to deploy expansionary policies for sustainable growth and development. He noted that the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic aggravated Nigeria’s fragile economy, resulting to decline in consumption, aggregate demand, investment, net export and increasing government spending. According to him, the trend informed the institute’s focus on how the Nigerian capital market could assist in bridging the infrastructure deficit and funding gap in the country. Amolegbe said, “Our panelists shall examine investment options for diversification of portfolios across asset classes and beyond the traditional asset classes. “We plan to also examine how the proposed Companies and Allied Matters Act 2020 will benefit the capital market as well as provide context on how Nigerian Stock Exchange’s demutualisation shall benefit the capital market stakeholders.” He added that the conference scheduled for the 4th and 5th of November would have other key discussants as the Nigerian Stock Exchange’s Chief Executive Officer, Oscar Onyema and Chairman, Capital Bancorp Plc, Olutola Mobolurin. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com