Kayode Oyero Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has lamented the wanton destruction of private and public assets as hoodlums under the guise of the #EndSARS protests looted and razed important government infrastructure and business premises in the state. Sanwo-Olu, who led some members of his cabinets to the vandalised sites across the state, said he won’t allow further destruction in the state. He also warned those instigating people on social media to desist from such act while preaching peace and assuring residents that the government was on top of the situation. “Moving forward from the destruction, we have to continue the process of healing ourselves. We need to stop some of our citizens still using the social media to instigate or incite the people. “It will not be under my watch that we will lose the city that has the largest economy in the entire black nation. “Enough is enough. I have moved round and I saw that our people want peace. On this, we are committed to bringing lasting peace back to the state,” the governor was quoted as saying in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile. The statement was titled, ‘Sanwo-Olu Preaches Peace As He Inspects Govt, Private Assets Destroyed In Wednesday Coordinated Attacks’. Akosile said the governor visited 27 locations across the state where government assets and private properties were destroyed and physically assessed the level of the vandalism. Sanwo-Olu described the arson attack in Lagos as “coordinated wanton destruction”, saying it would take the state many decades to recover from the devastation. “My heart bled after I went out today for a first-hand assessment of the destruction of assets of the Government and private properties. “The level of destruction observed indicated that the violence was more than just a peaceful protest and agitations for police reforms. The proportion of the devastation is a lot. This is not the Lagos that was handed over to me on May 29, 2019,” the statement further quoted the governor. At least three banks, over 10 police stations, local government secretariats, over 80 BRT buses, shopping malls, shops, court, palace, houses, amongst others were torched by the rampaging hoodlums. Others burnt down include the Lagos State Public Works Corporation in Ojodu, Nigeria Port Authority Building at Marina, Lagos State DNA and Forensic Centre at CMS, Vehicle Inspection Service headquarters in Ojodu and Toll Plazas at Lekki and Ikoyi Link Bridge. The governor had since instructed the Lagos Waste Management Authority to clean up the city. Furthermore, Sanwo-Olu said a Panel of Inquiry would commence investigation into Tuesday shootings on Monday. The panel, the governor said, would start its sitting at the Lagos Court Arbitration Centre international in Lekki. He urged members of the public to send their petitions and evidence on the Lekki incident to the panel investigation. “The governor also visited Reddington Lekki Hospital where some of the injured protesters were admitted after the shootings. All admitted persons had been discharged,” the statement concluded.