John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party on Monday urged the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, to use his victory to unite the party as well as the people of the state. National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, made the plea when Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shaibu, paid a thank-you visit to party leaders in Abuja. Secondus said, “Your Excellency, our advice for you is that the election is over, the expectations are very high. You must now show the experience you came with from the private sector. In the political world, it is your ability to lead everyone together especially in this your last tenure that matters.” Secondus further said, “There are three arms of government – the executive which you head, even though you are the overall boss, make sure that the legislative arm, those who have offended you, who ran helter-skelter, bring them back, they are your children. “It is important that as the father of Edo, you bring them on board and work with all of them because that will be your legacy.” Obaseki expressed gratitude to party leaders for the role they played in ensuring his victory. Shortly afterwards, Obaseki while answering questions from reporters on the issue of the 14 member-elect of the Edo State House of Assembly, said “We have a dissident group, people elected and refused to be inaugurated, they were not prevented. They were listening to their godfather who kept hoping and promising that he would unconstitutionally get the state House of Assembly to re-issue a proclamation even after the court had settled the matter. [READ ALSO] October 12 resumption date: Lecturers can’t work on empty stomach, strike indefinite – ASUU “For more than 180 days they did not come. They refused to represent the people. Those seats became vacant; that’s what the constitution says. They went to court after those were declared vacant by the Speaker. There is nothing I can do at this time. I wish it didn’t happen but people were playing god and promising what is not constitutional.”