Ade Adesomoju, Abuja THE trial of the alleged Taraba State kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Bala, otherwise known as Wadume, resumed at the Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday. The fifth prosecution witness, Bala James, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, who earlier testified on July 15, 2020, was cross-examined by some of the defence lawyers at Tuesday’s proceedings. The judge, Justice Binta Nyako, thereafter adjourned the case till October 22 for the prosecution to present a sixth witness. Wadume and six others are being prosecuted on 13 counts of kidnapping, escape from custody, gunrunning, detention of kidnap victim, Usman Garba, and collection of ransom of N106m from the victim before releasing him. Apart from Wadume, the rest of the defendants are, Inspector Aliyu Dadje, who was a station officer at police headquarters in Ibi, Auwalu Bala (aka Omo Razor), Uba Bala (aka Uba Belu),  Bashir Waziri (aka Baba Runs); Zubairu Abdullahi (aka Basho); and Rayyanu Abdul. Wadume was first arrested in Ibi, Taraba State, by members of the Intelligence Response Team of the Inspector-General of Police on August 6, 2019 before soldiers led by Captain Tijjani Balarabe aided his escape from the custody of the policemen conveying him to Abuja. The Captain Balarabe-led troops attached to the 93 Battalion in Takum, Taraba State, had allegedly shot at the policemen who were conveying Wadume to Abuja shortly after arresting the prime suspect in Ibi, Taraba State on August 6, 2019. The Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr, Abubakar Malami (SAN), removed the names of the soldiers as defendants from the case within days of taking over the case from the police in July 2020. Under cross-examination by Wadume’s lawyer, Ishiaka Dikko (SAN), on Tuesday, James said he did not visit any other place apart from Wukaro and Ibi in Taraba State in respect of the investigation into the case. The prosecuting counsel, Mr Labaran Magaji, had asked for an adjournment of the case to enable him to present the sixth prosecuting witness. The judge then adjourned the case till October 22. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com