Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ Forum, Aminu Tambuwal, has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), to deploy technology in tackling security challenges confronting the country particularly in the North-West. He said this in an interview with journalists when the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, led leaders of the party on a solidarity visit to the Bauchi State governor on Friday night. Tambuwal who expressed worry that the state of insecurity in the North-West said the country was under-policed and called on the Federal Government to employ competent and qualified unemployed youths into the security agencies in the country. He said, “I am calling on Mr President to seriously consider employing more capable, competent and qualified hands. We have many unemployed youths who are patriotic, competent and qualified and can be enlisted in the security apparatus that we have in Nigeria like the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Air Force, Nigeria Police, the DSS (Department of State Services) and all other agencies. “I am appealing to Mr President to seriously consider employing those who are competent and qualified because we know that Nigeria is under-policed and there is the need for more hands. I know that we are doing more on community policing but that is not enough. “We are appealing to Mr President to ensure and guarantee that packages meant for the army and the men out there reach them, in terms of their rations, earnings, welfare, well-being, and the welfare of their family members. “Also, we are imploring Mr President to deploy ICT equipment to be made available to the men in the forefront of the fight against insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and other crimes.” Those on the entourage were Secondus; the Deputy National Chairman of the PDP North, Nazif Gamawa; former President of the Senate, David Mark; and a former Gombe State governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  