Rotimi Adesanya Child and Public Health Physician
roayad@yahoo.com
08037202050 In the first part of this piece, I wrote about common foot problems most of which are related to Diabetes Mellitus under the broad name called diabetic Foot. A case history in particular mentioned in the piece was the story of a middle aged man who thought and believed his affected leg was due to the charm he stepped on only for the doctor to discover on routine examination that he actually had a diabetic foot. Diabetic foot presents with nerve damage numbness, tingling sensation, leg pain, improper alignment, injury and poor circulation (blood flow). Inadequate blood flow increases the healing time for cuts and sores. When a minor skin bruises or scrape occurs, it can result in ulcers or sores. Other common foot problems which affect a lot of people with one medical condition or the others are explained below.  Some don’t have any underlying medical condition. Athlete’s foot Fungal infection of the feet is called athlete’s foot. Cracked skin, itching, and redness are associated with the condition. Fungus enters cracks in the skin causing an infection that must be treated with antifungal medications. Oral medications or topical creams may be used to treat athlete foot Fungal nail infection Thick, brittle, yellow-brown, or opaque nails are common with fungal nail infections of the toes. The infected area may crumble or seem to pull away from the rest of the nail. Fungus thrives in the warm, moist, dark environment created by wearing closed-toed shoes. Toe nail injury also increases the risk of fungal toe nail infection. These infections are difficult, but not impossible, to treat. Oral medications work best to treat fungal nail infections. Sometimes, surgery is necessary to remove infected areas of the nail. Calluses and Corns Calluses are hard areas of thickened skin that build up on the bottom of the feet. Uneven weight distribution, a skin abnormality, or ill-fitting shoes may cause calluses while a corn is a thickened, button-like area of skin that builds up between the toes or near a bony area of a toe. Pressure and friction cause corns. Care of calluses and corns includes: Rubbing the area with pumice stone after a shower or bath, Placing cushioned insoles or pads in shoes, using some medication to soften calluses. It’s normal to have some calluses. It’s important to never try to cut a callus using a sharp object. Doing so can cause serious injury. Bunions A bunion is a sore, red, callused area that forms on the outside of the joint of the big toe. Bunions make the big toe angle inward. They may appear on both feet and tend to run in families. Wearing high-heeled shoes with inadequate toe room increases the risk of bunions by pushing the big toes into an unnatural position. Covering the bunion with padding or a foam cushion helps protect it. Special toe separators may be used to keep the toes in proper alignment. If the bunion is very painful or unsightly, surgery may be used to alleviate the symptoms. Plantar fasciitis Plantar fasciitis is one of the most common causes of heel pain. It involves inflammation of a thick band of tissue that runs across the bottom of the foot and connects the heel bone to the toes (plantar fascia). Plantar fasciitis commonly causes stabbing pain that usually occurs with the first steps in the morning. As one get up and move, the pain normally decreases, but it might return after long periods of standing or when one stand up after sitting. Ingrown toenail Ingrown toenails derive their name from growing into the skin along the edges of the nail. An ingrown toenail may cause pain, pressure, and even cut into the skin leading to an infection. Wearing tight or ill-fitting shoes increases the risk of ingrown toenails. High-impact activities such as running and aerobics may contribute to the problem. Walking, toe crowding, and inadequately trimmed toe nails may also cause ingrown toenails. The best way to prevent ingrown toenails is to keep the nails trimmed. Professional medical treatment is necessary if an ingrown toenail is severe or if there is an infection. Sometimes surgery is necessary to remove the affected part of the nail and the growth plate from which the nail grows. In conclusion, wash out for this common foot symptoms or signs which may be a pointer to serious feet disorders. Others are infected toenails, dry cracked skin, leg pain, foul-smelling, persistent, or unusual foot odour, ingrown toenails or toenails infected with fungus, oozing, open sores that appear to be draining and/or are slow to heal. Generally, People who have diabetic foot or other foot disorders should have a regular foot exam done by a foot doctor (podiatrist) every 3-6 months, at each check-up, the doctor will thoroughly examine the feet. …concluded Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com