Kayode Oyero Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the 24-hour curfew imposed on the state to curtail the arson and widespread violence that has ravaged the state might be eased by Friday. The governor said the easing of the curfew was necessary for Lagos residents to restock food supplies and other essential commodities. “On lifting the curfew, it is something we are monitoring on an hourly basis. “Once we see that there is normalcy around the state, it is a pronouncement that we can make as early as tomorrow to ease the lockdown so that people can have the means to stock up and to buy food. “So, we are actually looking and monitoring what events will look like today. “Once we see the streets are cleared up and all the agitation and high nerves have gone down, we might slow down the curfew by tomorrow (Friday) or next tomorrow (Saturday) at the latest,” he said in a television programme on Thursday morning. The governor said it was important to get economic activities running again in the state after the setbacks suffered due to the pandemic. “We want to put this behind us very quickly. Lagos is not a state you stop activities for a long time. This is a state that runs 24/7 as it were and that is what we know our Lagos for and that is what we really need to get our Lagos back to,” he added. Sanwo-Olu had announced the imposition of the curfew on Tuesday afternoon in the wake of the unrest in the state. Hoodlums had taken advantage of the #EndSARS protests against police brutality and extrajudicial killings to wreak havoc and cause mayhem in the state. The situation was further worsened when soldiers, in a bid to disperse the protesters at the Lekki toll gate, opened fire on the youths. About 30 injured youths are currently receiving treatments at various hospitals around the Lekki area while eyewitnesses said no fewer than seven persons died in the attack Speaking further on Thursday, the governor insisted that he never gave orders for the uniformed men to go to the protest ground. He said a Judicial Panel of Inquiry would commence an investigation into Tuesday night shootings next Monday.