Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki THE Ebonyi State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party on Tuesday insisted that the party must zone the 2023 presidency to the South-East for peace to reign in the party. It also warned the party leadership against taking any action to deny the incumbent National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, a second term in office. The state party leadership noted that Secondus had done well for the party and deserved to be given another term. The state Chairman of the PDP, Onyekachi Nwebonyi, said this at a media briefing in Abakaliki on Tuesday. The party also joined members of the PDP-dominated Ebonyi House of Assembly to demand the convocation of the National Executive Committee meeting of the party to zone the presidency to the South-East within one week. Nwebonyi said, “In the event that these demands are not met, Ebonyi State Chapter of the PDP will not accept any other arrangement as that may cause apathy among the teaming supporters of the party in the state. “We wish to also urge the NEC of the PDP to consider zoning the presidency to the South-East. This should be done within a week as INEC has announced the date for the 2023 presidential election. “The South-East has notable personalities who have performed exceedingly well in public service. Of course, we apparently have the best brains in the country. “We have the likes of Senator Pius Anyim, Dr. Peter Obi, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Senator Theodore Orji, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, who have accolades that speak volumes. There are other capable dignitaries, many of who occupy public positions currently who have performed well and can be president of this country. “Since the inception of this democratic dispensation, PDP has never thrown its presidential ticket open to all zones. It has always been rotated between the South and the North. “The South-East has always delivered every presidential candidate of the party at the polls. In the 1999 and 2003 presidential elections, Obasanjo won in the South-East. “In 2007, Yar’Adua won in the South-East and Jonathan too won in 2011 and 2015. Also, in 2019, Atiku Abubakar won the presidential election in the South-East with a wide margin. When contacted, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan said the issue had not been brought to his notice. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com