Friday Olokor, Abuja A fresh crisis appears imminent in the All Progressives Congress as a group within the party, Concerned APC Members, has given the party’s National Caretaker committee a 14-day ultimatum to announce a timetable for a national convention as directed by the National Executive Council. The group threatened to hold a nationwide protest should the Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee fail to meet its demands. The spokesperson for the C-APC, Abdullahi Dauda, issued the threat on behalf of other members at a press conference in Abuja, on Monday. He alleged that members of the group were aware of a plot by the Buni committee to extend its tenure by one year contrary to the mandate given by NEC on June 20, 2020. While accusing Buni of keeping party leaders away from the Edo governorship election campaign, Dauda said, “This act of betrayal to a party that has done so much for him is condemnable. Ondo would have been another disappointment but for the unity of purpose by the leadership of the South-West zone to avoid another embarrassing outing. We cannot hold our peace anymore; our collective silence is an indictment.” Dauda said the C-APC was worried that if not curtailed on time, Buni’s alleged personal interest would lead to the collapse of the APC ahead of the 2023 general elections. He said, “We have therefore resolved that we are giving the caretaker committee a 14-day ultimatum to roll out a plan of action/timetable for the party’s December elective convention or face mass demonstration of party members nationwide. “We demand that a timetable leading to a hitch-free convention be released within the next 14 days. The caretaker committee should halt the proposed registration of fresh members and allow the next National Working Committee members to carry out such assignments. “Mr President should check the Buni-led Caretaker Committee before it buries the party. Furthermore, we are aware that the committee is planning registration of members which is not part of the resolution of the last NEC.” When contacted, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena, said, “They don’t even have the right to issue an ultimatum. There is no need for giving an ultimatum. If they have any option or solution to fast-track whatsoever their demand is, let them come to the secretariat and make their case so that we can listen to them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 