Abiodun Nero, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party on Wednesday demanded that the state government account for the over N3bn allegedly received from various sources for the provision of palliatives during the COVID-19 lockdown. PDP factional state Publicity Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju, alleged that the funds were given by the Federal Government, World Bank and Coalition against COVID-19, to ameliorate the suffering of the people during the pandemic. Adeyanju, in a statement said, “Our question is – Where is the money? The people of Ekiti State deserve to know what happened to the fund since there is no evidence to show that it was spent on anything”. He also explained that the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, had revealed that each state got N1bn COVID-19 fund from the Federal Government and another N1.1bn grant by the World Bank, adding that “over N1bn was donated to Ekiti State by private individuals and corporate organisations, making over N3bn that the state got for COVID-19.” In response, the state spokesman of the All Progressives Congress, Elder Sam Oluwalana, said, “The money donated to Ekiti State during the COVID-19 were well appropriated for the task they were earmarked for. “Isn’t it shameful that a party (PDP) that produced an administration that couldn’t account for billions of naira meant for budget support, bailouts and other funds it received, is now turning around to accuse a prudent government of misappropriation? “Their false and unsubstantiated assertions that palliatives are stored in Government House are a ploy to incite the people to attack the seat of government. They (PDP) are not happy with the serene peace being enjoyed by the people of the state and want to create confusion.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com