Nike Popoola The Lagos State Government has said the Ikorodu sub-region master plan, which is in the final stages, is envisioned to unlock the socioeconomic potential of the axis as it stands to reap bountifully the benefits of planning and effective land use. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, said this during the public presentation of the draft final report of the Ikorodu sub-region master plan to stakeholders at Ikorodu recently. Assistant Director, Public Affairs, Mukaila Sanusi, said this in a statement on Friday titled ‘LASG says Ikorodu sub-region masterplan will unlock socioeconomic potential of the axis’. Salako stated that the sub-region master plan was designed to propel the sustainable growth of the area by re-organising the sub-region and infusing it with supporting infrastructure to create a more livable, lively and lovely environment for the Ikorodu population. He said that the plan which was initiated in 2016 had been revived to complement and align with the present administration’s THEMES Agenda. “It gives me great pleasure to state that Ikorodu sub-region has by this noble cause received the well-deserved attention of the state government, while its potential, natural, man-made and human, have been considered, mapped and modelled to achieve the policy directives of the pillars in the THEMES Agenda,” he said. He added, “This project is envisioned as a tool that will provide a comprehensive development policy for the sub-region over the next 20 years, for it is designed to focus on ensuring a sustainable and inclusive environment which includes all spheres of the sub-region: Economic, social and cultural.” The commissioner explained that Ikorodu was endowed with well built-up settlements, very rich historical culture, expansive wetlands and rain forest zones, all that were yet to be fully explored for the inherent and chain potential. “As one of the major socioeconomic hubs of Lagos State and the fact that Ikorodu has witnessed rapid urbanisation, which includes the metamorphosis of major agricultural lands to other uses such as residential, commercial and industrial, there is dire need to review the land allocation pattern to infuse space efficiency he said,” he said. Salako added that the sub-region plan had incorporated major pivotal projects including the proposed Fourth Mainland bridge, regional roads, linking the region with Sagamu, Ogun State and improved water transport ferry terminals. He noted that the sub-region with an estimated area of 48, 058.25 hectares, comprising seven Local Council Development Areas, in addition to the Ikorodu Local Government Area, was bedevilled with challenges such as extensive land encroachment, slum formation, uncoordinated dredging activities and declining agricultural activities among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 