Friday Olokor, Abuja A political think tank, the Centre for Democracy and Development, on Monday, expressed fear over the influx of fake observers into Ondo State during the governorship election in the state, which held on Saturday. While calling on the Independent National Electoral Commission to check the trend in subsequent elections, the organisation commended INEC for the result viewing portal, which it noted added credibility to the poll. The Director, CDD, Idayat Hassan, and Chair of its Election Analysis Centre, Prof. Adele Jinadu, stated these in Abuja during a press conference on the Ondo State election. Hassan said, “Another trend observed by the CDD in the Ondo governorship election was the presence of fake observers, who were neither accredited by INEC, nor trained to engage in non-partisan observation. “The CDD investigation showed that the role of these fake observers was to muddy the waters and conflate the messaging about key processes in the election being disseminated by genuine observers. We recommend that in subsequent elections, INEC should do more to curtail them and weed them out.” She also recommended the immediate enactment of a legislation to establish an Electoral Offences Commission to deal with the rising incidence of vote-buying and other forms of electoral corruption and offences. According to her, there is a need to create a civil society network of volunteers at polling units dedicated to monitor and discourage vote-buying on election day. Jinadu said the CDD report about the election provided an account of its major findings, derived primarily from field data gathered by researchers and observers deployed for the Ondo election. He said INEC deployed election officials and materials to all polling units in a timely and efficient manner to enable the accreditation and voting process start and end as scheduled in most polling units, including those in the riverside areas. According to him, Smart Card Readers functioned well although there were hitches that were quickly rectified by technicians on stand-by duty in some polling units. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 