Ramon Oladimeji and Deji Lambo An Inspector, Innocent Adadu, has been detained for brutalising a PUNCHman, Kayode Jaiyeola, during the #RevolutionNow protest organised by the Coalition for Revolution in Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the protest, which started around 9.30am on Thursday, saw the protesters gather around Ojota, where they sang solidarity songs as they marched to the Maryland area of the state. At Maryland, the protesters sensitised passers-by and demonstrated amid tight security by policemen, who observed as the group expressed their agitations. One of the protesters, Agba Jalingo, urged the government to reverse the increase in fuel price. He said, “We are tired of Buhari and we want to tell the whole world that we are tired. Even with all the police mobilisations, we are here to show them our determination to confront this government. We are not going to be afraid of them. We will protest regardless of what they do. “Nigerians are tired of bearing the burden that Buhari keeps piling on us; they must reverse the increase in fuel price and end the ASUU strike, we have made a lot of demands and until they listen to us, we will continue to protest like this.” After hours of unrelenting protest at Maryland, one of the leaders of the group, Kunle Ajayi, dispersed the crowd. As the protesters were leaving the scene, a group of policemen in a van suddenly drove into the scene and attacked journalists who covered the protest. Adadu hit Jaiyeola’s head with a baton, as the PUNCHman fell with blood gushing out from his head. While the cops fled from the scene of the attack in a patrol vehicle, Jaiyelola was also whisked away by the policemen. The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, who described Adadu’s conduct as unprofessional, apologised and visited Jaiyeola at the police clinic in Ikeja, where his head was stitched. In a statement, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said Odumosu had ordered immediate orderly room trial of the cop for brutalising Jaiyeola, who had no confrontation with the police. The statement read, “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered immediate detention and orderly room trial of one Inspector Innocent Adadu attached to PMF 22 Ikeja, for hitting and injuring one Kayode Jaiyeola, of PUNCH Newspapers with a stick at Maryland, Lagos, on Thursday, October 1, 2020, around 11.10am. “The police chief, who was monitoring the deployment and operational activities of officers and men of the command for the enforcement of the order against unlawful gathering and protest by some unpatriotic individuals, raced to the scene and personally moved the injured journalist to the Police Cottage Hospital at Area F, GRA, Ikeja, where he personally waited and ensured that the injured journalist was given immediate and best medical treatment. He cut-off his movements to stay throughout the journalist’s treatment and subsequent discharge. “Preliminary findings carried out by the CP and eyewitness’ accounts from senior officers on the ground revealed that the cop suddenly attacked the journalist, without any previous altercation or confrontation. This propelled the CP to order for his trial in order to serve as a deterrent to others who are fond of engaging in unprofessional and unethical conducts.” Adejobi also noted that 30 protesters were arrested at various locations in the state for unlawful assembly and breach of public peace, adding that “the arrested individuals, who put on crested vests of #RevolutionNow, with placards, will be charged to court on Friday, October 2, 2020.” Meanwhile, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project condemned the the attack on the peaceful protesters and Jaiyeola. The Deputy Director, SERAP, Kolawole Oludare, said in a statement that the government’s intolerance of dissenting voices and persistent attacks on protesters and journalists should stop. “Nigerians have every reason to peacefully protest repression and the government of President Buhari has constitutional and international obligations to allow them to do so safely. “Freedom of assembly and freedom of expression are fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Nigerian Constitution, the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Nigeria has ratified both treaties,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  