Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. October 20, 2020 will forever remain a dark Tuesday in our collective minds. It was a day that cowards ordered cowards to go kill harmless and fearless young people asking for what is just and fair. It was a day that the white of the national colours turned red, owing to the split blood of defenseless citizens. This has been a traumatic time in my life, a time that I witnessed a cruel and bitter irony whereby the bullets purchased by taxpayers were used against taxpayers. We are not at war, yet the national flags were used as burial shrouds to cover the dead felled by the very bullets of the state that ought to protect them. I cried and cried. I can’t describe the feelings that came over me as I watched this dark and twisted turn of events unfold for about three hours via the live feed of two Instagram channels. Kudos to heroes such as djswitch, godson54 and others who, at the risk of their lives, captured this gruesome moment in history. These folks are our modern-day heroes. It was a scary moment, yet they risked their lives so the world could bear witness to the massacre that happened at Lekki Tollgate that ill-fated day. The sadness was increased by a thousand fold when the Governor of Lagos State, in a live broadcast, said that nobody died – a flagrant and outrageous denial. As if that was not enough, the President’s speech on Thursday was nothing short of heartbreaking and disappointing. We are talking about human lives here. We have lost tens of harmless youths, 12 according to Amnesty International and the President gives a speech and makes no reference to that. Words fail me! Dear Nigerians, the last time I felt this level of sadness and disappointment was during the reign of terror of General Sanni Abacha. Listening to last night’s broadcast, I can say for certain that this feels like a military regime. It is sad to note that Nigeria has become a land rife with wickedness, gross human rights abuse, callousness, high-handedness, rape, murder and corruption; all of these, simply means the country certainly deserves better quality and selfless leaders. The so-called SARS and the police force in general need far-reaching and intensive reforms. The #ENDSARS protesters refused to back down knowing that politicians and government officials are usually interested in playing to the gallery. Another reason for their refusal is that they saw through the motives of the government when it superficially changed the name of the rogue arm of the police force from SARS to FSARS and now to SWAT. One would wonder what it is this group of vicious predators intend to “swat”. An interesting way forward At the heart of the impressive organisation of the movement has been technology. Social media and tech helped a great deal – from funding to catering, from medical services to sustaining the pressure etc., all of these bear a testament to the fact that the movement is an organised and well-structured one. It was so much so that it put fear into the very seat of power. Several public commentators have argued that the pockets of violence witnessed in various parts of the country were sponsored by the state to discredit the movement and paint it as one that is designed to turn violent. A video surfaced online that alleged that some security officials were coordinating thugs, arming them with all sorts of dangerous weapons. The government, as usual, has denied that those found in the video were its officials just as the army denied that the officers we saw in the videos shooting at protesters were not men of the Nigerian military. At times, I wonder who is really in charge of the Nigerian state – are we not just on auto-pilot? One thing I can say for certain is that the violence we have witnessed across the country since the day after the shootings at Lekki was not caused by the #EndSARS protesters, because they have largely comported themselves properly since the protests started. These are certainly the handiworks of paid touts and thugs, who have become monsters created by some members of the greedy, power-grabbing political class. Nigeria has always been and still is a time-bomb waiting to explode except we work to change this trajectory. You cannot assume all is well in a country where a huge number of its youthful population are unemployed. Be that as it may, what the movement has taught us is that Nigerians, particularly the young people, are not as docile as originally assumed. The EndSars movement has demonstrated and proven that the youths have all it takes to recover the very heart and soul of this country from greedy, self-serving and wicked politicians, who care about no one but themselves, their immediate family and cronies. Leveraging technology, social media and the power of software, a lot can be achieved over the next two years leading into the 2023 general elections. It is high time the youths gave these politicians a run for their money, albeit in a non-violent way. I call on leaders of the Nigerian tech ecosystem to come together as we have already seen but this time with the intention of making a difference politically. A good way forward is to push for the development of solutions that would provide platforms that can ensure that come 2023, we can elect leaders of our dreams. We need solutions that will ensure that fundraising is seamless and transparent. We equally need solutions that will make monitoring and observing of free and fair elections not only feasible but a lot less cumbersome. The first point of call however is that we must start by ensuring that we get at least 30 million young Nigerians of voting age to start by getting their voters card. This movement has to evolve into a platform or support an existing one that can seek and contest for political power. That being said, the time to start planning is now! The Punch Editorial of October 23, 2020 captured it well, “this is the time for all Nigerians, leaders, elders and all groups to stand for human rights and justice. The tolerance of state impunity for so long has weakened civil engagement and democratic institutions. Black Tuesday will not be forgotten. It will be remembered because it was a day peaceful protesting youths were slaughtered at Lekki Tollgate while holding the Nigerian national flag and singing the national anthem.” Now to all the fallen heroes of the Lekki Tollgate butchery- we salute your courage. Those cowards sought to shut you down with the guns meant to fight external aggression. Shame on them all! Rest on as we continue to struggle to build a more fair and equitable society. We will never forget your valiant courage and unbeatable strength. Rest on dear friends!!! CFA is the co-founder of techbuild.africa, a tech and innovation platform Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 