Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Commissioner for Information, Mr Donald Ojogo, on Monday accused the governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party,  Mr Agboola Ajayi, of planning to attack his convoy in order to implicate Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in Owo town. In an earlier statement by the Director- General of the Agboola Ajayi Campaign Organisation, Dr Kola Ademujimi, on Monday,  the ZLP had alleged that Akeredolu had perfected plan to attack the candidate of the party in order to disrupt the campaign tour in the Owo Local Government Area, hence the suspension of the tour. But Ojogo, who spoke with journalists in Akure, said the government uncovered the alleged plan on Monday. He said, “The incident is planned for today (Monday) and targeted to be seen to have been carried out by supporters of a political party as he visits Owo as part of his campaign tour. “The Ondo State Government has implicit confidence in the capacity of the security agencies to unravel the circumstances leading to skirmishes in the last three weeks. We are, however, persuaded to believe that most of such attacks are organised by ‘the loud victims’ to demonise the government and paint a savoury atmosphere of insecurity as we approach the October 10 election. “In the case of today’s planned imaginary theatre of violence, Ajayi, characteristically desires not the seat of governor. His motive is to create crisis and play the ignoble role of an underdog and victim in order to attract public sympathy. “The state government wishes to reiterate its sustained call on the security agencies to heighten their surveillance and stem every untoward move in the direction of a peaceful election. Providing adequate security for Ajayi as he tours Owo can only be a potent effort to forestall a dangerous slide into perfidy.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  