Friday Olokor, Abuja Following the ongoing #EndSARS nationwide protests, the Independent National Electoral has announced the indefinite postponement of the bye-elections in the six senatorial districts and nine state constituencies. The commission said it would continue to monitor the situation and meet again in two weeks to decide on a feasible date for the elections. The by-elections are to take place in Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Bayelsa West Senatorial District, Nganzai and Bayo constituencies in Borno State, Cross River North Senatorial District and  Obudu Constituency in Cross River. Others are Imo North Senatorial District, Lagos East Senatorial District, Kosofe II Constituency in Lagos State, Plateau South Senatorial District, Bakura Constituency in Zamfara and Ibaji Constituency in Kogi. The by-elections in the federal and state legislative houses were due to resignation or death of members in the eight states of the federation. INEC National Commissioner and chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, announced the postponement in a statement after a meeting held with 37 Resident Electoral Commissioners on Thursday in Abuja. Okoye said, “The commission has decided to postpone the bye-elections in the six Senatorial Districts and nine state constituencies. This decision is in compliance with Section 26 (2) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), which gives the commission the power to postpone an election if there is reason to believe that a serious breach of the peace is likely to occur if the election is proceeded with on that date, or that it is impossible to conduct the elections as a result of natural disasters or other emergencies. “The commission will continue to monitor the situation in all the states and constituencies, consult with relevant stakeholders and meet again in two weeks to review the situation and decide on a feasible date for the elections. “The commission appeals for calm and understanding of the stakeholders and voters in the states where elections were scheduled. The safety of the voters, election officials and other stakeholders is paramount to the Commission in conducting elections. “We are convinced that the country will emerge from the current challenges stronger while our electoral process will continue to improve.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  