Chima Azubuike, Gombe Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya, on Wednesday, swore in two special advisers, urging them to complement efforts of his administration in ensuring effective and efficient service delivery to the people. Those sworn in by the governor included Prince Chidebelu Ewuzie and Group Captain Peter Bilal (retd.). While Ewuzie was appointed as Special Adviser on Inter-community Relations, Bilal assumed the position of Special Adviser on Development Control and Enforcement. Yahaya urged them to bring to bear their wealth of experience and expertise, saying their coming into his administration would impact positively on the execution of government policies and programmes. To Bilal, the governor said, “We all know there has to be code of conduct in putting up structures and ensuring compliance to codes and regulations. “For us to have cities throughout the state and put up development structures that we can leave as a legacy to our people, we need to have people that are up and doing, hence the appointment of Group Captain Peter Bilal as Special Adviser on Development Control and Enforcement.” He said the development control and compliance unit was established as part of his administration’s determination to transform the state into a model. Yahaya further described inter-community relations as one area that needed to be pursued with all vigour, noting that Ewuzie, who he said was well known, would use his office to unite not only the Igbo-speaking community, but other ethnic nationalities resident in the state. Ewuzie, in his response, thanked the governor for finding them worthy to serve the state, assuring the governor of their loyalty and support in efforts to take the state to enviable heights. Members of the State Executive Council had earlier held a brief surprise session to rejoice with Yahaya on his 59th birthday anniversary on October 9. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com