Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has threatened to reinstate criminal proceedings against former chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Ojukaye Flag-Amachree. Wike accused Flag-Amachree of leading some youths trying to cause mayhem under the guise of supporting #EndSARS protests in the state on Monday. However, Flag-Amachree in a statement on Wednesday, said he had the constitutional right to freely associate and peacefully protest having been a victim of bad policing in 2016. Recall that the former APC chairman was arrested in April 2016 over the alleged murder of one Smart Soberekon and was charged to Court by the State Government, but was later granted a nolle prosequi. Wike issued the threat to prosecute Flag-Amachree during a stateside radio and television broadcast on Tuesday. He also announced plans to set up a Judicial Panel of Inquiry to investigate human rights violations by the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad in the state. The governor said, “We were the first state in this country to expose the cruelties of SARS and challenged the Federal Government to rein in on this evil force but nothing happened. “At this point, it is important to remind Ojukaye Flag-Amachree and his fellow criminal travelers that nolle prosequi is not an acquittal. Government will not hesitate to reinstate criminal proceedings against them if they continue with their predispositions to violence and criminal misconduct. “Rivers State is peaceful and we cannot allow any misguided person or group to exploit the current situation to disturb the peace and endanger our collective security”, he stated. The Governor also announced that a reformed and disciplined task force on illegal street trading and motor parks would soon be set up to restore sanity to the streets. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com