Nike Popoola The Lagos Economic Summit Group has said it is charting the part for a sustainable socio-economic development for Lagos State. The Co-Chair, Ehingbeti 2020 Steering Committee and former Lagos State Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr Olayemi Cardoso, said this during the unveiling of the new logo for ‘Ehingbeti’, ahead of its November conference in Lagos on Thursday. He said, “As economies around the world begin to implement recovery strategies from the shockwaves of coronavirus, the Lagos Economic Summit Group is charting the path for the sustainable socio-economic development of Lagos State at the Lagos economic summit tagged, Ehingbeti 2020.” With the absence of the economic summit in the past four years, he said there seemed to be a decline in the rate of public-private collaboration in the state. He said this year’s summit was aimed at reconnecting with the private sector, which was the bedrock of the Lagos Economic Summit. “The quest to strengthen existing relationship between government and the private sector is one of the major goals of this summit, since greater private sector participation in governance was a prerequisite for a functional state,” he said. He said the group had refreshed the Ehingbeti logo to reflect the contemporary outlook of the annual summit without disconnecting from the economic heritage of the Marina and Broad Streets areas of Lagos, which served as the springboard for Nigerian and West African economic development since the European incursion in the 15th century. Cardoso said the theme for Ehingbeti 2020 tagged, “For a greater Lagos: Setting the tone for the next decade,” would provide a robust platform for deliberations on pragmatic optimisation of the inherent opportunities in the state and offer perspectives on how to manage the peculiar socio-economic landscape of the state in the coming decade. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 