Johnson Okafor The Securities and Exchange Commission has issued a corporate governance guideline and a template (revised Form 01) for reporting compliance with the Securities and SEC Corporate Governance Guideline, which becomes effective on January 1, 2021. According to a statement from the SEC on Tuesday, some provisions of the document which can be found on SEC website indicates that membership of the board shall not be less than five. To safeguard the independence of the board, it said not more than two members of the same family should sit on the board of a public company at the same time The guidelines also stipulated that in appointing a person to the board, shareholders should be provided with information on any real or potential conflict of interest, including whether a proposed appointee is an interlocking director. “The letters of appointment should cover the following: Synopsis of Director’s rights; Director evaluation programme used by the company, and any other contractual responsibilities,” the statement added. On sustainability, the guideline stated, “Companies shall recognise corruption as a major threat to business and to national development and therefore as a sustainability issue for businesses in Nigeria. “Companies, boards and individual directors must commit themselves to transparent dealings and to the establishment of a culture of integrity and zero tolerance to corruption and corrupt practices. “In order to foster good corporate governance, companies shall engage in increased disclosure beyond the statutory requirements in the CAMA. In a bid to minimise risk in the operations of companies, the guidelines stated that the annual risk-based internal audit plan should address the broad range of risks facing the company, linking this to a risk management framework; and identify audit priority areas and areas of greatest threat to the company. It added that the plan should indicate how assurance would be provided on the company’s risk management process and indicate the resources and skills available or required to achieve the plan. Recall that the Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance of 2018 issued by the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria effectively replaced the Code of Corporate Governance for public companies issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The FRC had also issued a template for reporting compliance with the NCCG 2018. According to the SEC, public companies are by this circular advised to comply with the requirements of the NCCG 2018 and also note that compliance with the SCGG/revised reporting template is mandatory.