Temiloluwa O’Peters Stakeholders in the paper and pulp industry have said investment in machinery and certain tree species needed for paper production is needed to reinvigorate the industry. The Chairperson, Printing and Publishing Group of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Princess Layo Okeowo, stated this at the group’s webinar on Thursday centred around revitalising the Nigerian Paper Industry. She said the paper industry was in comatose despite its huge potential, noting that it was important for stakeholders and the government to revive the critical sector. She therefore urged the nation to embrace the planting of new species of trees, with a shorter gestation period to correct the insufficient supply of long fibre pulp. Okeowo said, “Research has shown that tree species needed for manufacturing wood-free bond paper can be grown in Nigeria with a gestation period of six months and not 12 years or more as formerly believed. “This means that paper production in Nigeria is doable and we only need to share the knowledge across board.” According to her, the paper industry also needs smart investors who can tap into the potential of raw material availability in the country.She noted that the major area of investment would be the aspect of machinery as the raw materials needed would be readily available. Okeowo further stated that the sector needed specific policy measures to reflate activities in the industry and friendly policies to encourage higher private sector participation. “Collaboration can also be in the area of research (Paper Research Institute) on how to grow improved trees, own and manage plantations that will feed the mills, as well as the creation of training sectors that will strengthen the skills of young individuals in paper mill operations,” she added. The Regional Principal Officer, African Development Bank, Olufunso Somorin, emphasised the need to fix the country’s raw materials challenges develop collaborations with other countries that could provide raw materials to Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  