Ife Ogunfuwa The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, has linked the successful achievement of a digital economy to broadband penetration, access to smartphones, digital identity and biometric verification of bank accounts. Pantami said this while engaging industry players and agencies under the ministry on ways for achieving accelerated implementation of the new Nigerian National Broadband Plan 2020 to 2025 on Monday. A statement issued by the Nigerian Communications Commission said that the minister specifically stressed the need for collaboration between the public and private stakeholders to achieve the national target of 70 per cent broadband penetration as contained in the NNBP. The statement titled ‘Pantami Engages Stakeholders on Broadband Implementation’ was issued on Tuesday. According to Pantami, the stakeholder consultative forum is important to the government as it provides the opportunity to bring all the stakeholders on the same page for effective implementation of the NNBP 2020-2025. He added that the achievement of the targets in the plan needed the support and full engagement of all stakeholders. “So far, the journey for broadband penetration in Nigeria has been quite commendable and with the steady growth we are making, we are hopeful that our digital economy drive will be actualised,” Pantami said. “It is, however, important to bear in mind that broadband penetration, access to smartphones, development of digital identity ecosystem and biometric verification of bank accounts are four key elements that can drive the digital economy,” he said. The minister highlighted various ongoing policy initiatives aimed at creating an enabling environment for industry players towards pervasive deployment of broadband infrastructure. Also addressing the forum, the Executive Vice Chairman of the NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said the commission was embarking on necessary regulatory measures to actualise the targets in the national broadband policy. “As a commission, we are seeking collaborative action for the implementation of the plan and the NDEPS. The commission will continue to facilitate necessary regulatory measures for the deployment of fibre infrastructure to all parts of the country, which is crucial for pervasive broadband penetration that we are all working to achieve,” Danbatta said. He stated that while steady progress had been made with 54,724 kilometres of fibre so far deployed across the country, spirited efforts were being made to increase this milestone in fibre infrastructure. He added that the NCC would ensure maximum protection of fibre by working with the Office of the National Security Adviser to stem the spate of infrastructure vandalism. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com