Dennis Naku The Rivers State Government and the National Emergency Management Agency are on a collision course over interventions for victims and communities ravaged by flooding in the state. While the state government accused the agency of neglecting the state, NEMA said the Federal Government intervention through NEMA was predicated on the scale of the flooding. The Commissioner for Special Duties, Dr Thomas Bariere, made the accusation when he led a delegation to visit some flood-impacted communities in Ahoada West and Ahoada East local government areas of the state. Bariere said, “As we speak, we are aware that NEMA has been sending relief materials to other states of the federation, but whenever it is for Rivers State, it is one assessment upon another. “NEMA has its zonal office located in Rivers State. We have sent an assessment since the flood warning alert was given; the place has been assessed but we are shocked that, at this point in time, NEMA is still talking about assessments.” But in a swift reaction, the Zonal Coordinator (South-South) of NEMA, Walson Brandon, explained that the scale of most of the assessments it was conducting was not enough for a national intervention. He noted that, for the magnitude of flooding witnessed, the apex government “will definitely come with relief materials.” Brandon said, “Whenever we get the reply from the Federal Government, we tell them (states) that the headquarters is recommending that the state government should intervene in this particular one. That is how it works. “If only one house is on fire in a community, do you call the Rivers State Fire Service to come? The local government chairman is supposed to take care of it. It is unfortunate that everything is (blamed on) NEMA.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  