Tobi Aworinde The lawmaker representing Amuwo Odofin Constituency I at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mrs Mojisola Alli-Macaulay, has received backlash over her comments alleging that most Nigerian youths on social media are always high on drugs. Alli-Macaulay, in a video of her address at an October 26 plenary of the House on the looting and violence that trailed the #EndSARS protests, had said, “We need to begin to orientate our young people. They are high on drugs all the time, most of them. “They go to social media and do all sorts of things. I’m even scared to give my young children phones because I am scared of what they may see on social media. It is that bad.” The lawmaker argued that unemployed graduates could get a job in the informal sector instead of complaining about joblessness. Following the viral video, photos emerged on Thursday evening of COVID-19 palliatives, including several cartons of noodles and sacks of other food items, allegedly repackaged for redistribution as the lawmaker’s birthday souvenirs. Some of the souvenir bags, which read, ‘Happy birthday, Hon. Mojisolaoluwa Omokehinde Alli-Macaulay,’ also bore the lawmaker’s moniker ‘Mama Amuwo’ and what appeared to be a photo of her. Efforts to reach Alli-Macaulay for comments proved abortive as she did not respond to calls or a text message to her number. In reaction to her address, Nigerians took to Twitter to express their outrage. Super Eagles midfielder, John Ogu, said, “I saw Mojisola Alli-Macaulay’s video and I wept. (I am) disappointed but relieved. How dare you? God forgive and help us.” Similarly, @Warepamorsammy said, “So, according to Mojisola Alli-Macaulay, because there is unemployment in America, there should be unemployment in Nigeria. It’s a shame the woman said, ‘After graduating, why can’t you become a tiler?’ We need to hold conference talks with our (lawmakers) to understand one another.” @AkiMarlin said, “Mrs Mojisola Alli-Macaulay schooled in the UK and would send her kids to the UK for tertiary education for them to be gainfully employed abroad but would want ‘high Nigerian youths’ who are graduates to be professional tilers. I don’t blame her one bit. Na see finish.” Mac Paul Chuks, who tweeted under the handle @paulmcd61, said, “@mamaamuwo Mojisola Alli-Macaulay, the people you alleged to be poor actually live better than you. They don’t live off what belongs to others; they don’t steal palliatives.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com