Leke Baiyewu, Abuja There was a mild drama on the floor of the House of Representatives on Wednesday as two members defected from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party to join the ruling All Progressives Congress. They lawmakers are Mr Ephraim Nwuzi, who represents Etche/Omuma Federal Constituency in Rivers State, and Mr. David Abel, representing Gashaka/Kurmi/Sardauna Federal Constituency in Taraba State. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, read separate letters written to the House by the affected legislators during plenary. Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu; Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu; and leader of the PDP caucus, Kingsley Chinda, separately raised constitutional points of order, asking Gbajabiamila to declare the seats of the affected lawmakers vacant. They argued that there was no crisis in the PDP to warrant the defections. Okechukwu said, “This motion is based on law and due process. It is very apparent that our colleagues who have written to defect were simply mooting the charisma of the Speaker. Section 68(1)(g) of the Constitution refers to the fact that there must be a crisis in a political party before a member can defect. That presupposes that a member who does this contract to the constitution should lose their seat. “I, hereby, ask Mr. Speaker to observe and respect the law and the Constitution by asking the members who have referred to his charisma in order to defect, that they should abide by the rules of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Elumelu and Chinda also spoke in a similar fashion to buttress their points. Chinda specifically said the Speakers oath of office was “on trial.” In response, the Speaker said “Most of those who spoke were all here; what you have said, when I was Minority Leader and we had people cross over from our party to your party, I said what you said on this floor; I even said 100 times more, I quoted laws and cases, but you shut me down.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 