Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan Some leaders of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State have accused Governor Seyi Makinde of sponsoring hoodlums to cause violence before and during the Saturday governorship election in Ondo State. The Director-General of the APC Communication and Strategy Frontier, Mr Wale Olanrewaju, and Director of Organisation, Alhaji Olawale Sadare, in a statement on Tuesday  accused Makinde of wasting his state’s meagre resources on  Ondo State poll  in order to feather his political nest. The statement reads partly, “We know how the same Peoples Democratic Party candidate (Eyitayo Jegede) prosecuted his campaign in 2016 with minimum patronage of political thugs. “But we are now seeing the turn of event when Governor Makinde is being made to influence things within the PDP and it is on this note that we are putting the whole world on notice that the governor of Oyo State should be held responsible for any security breach in Ondo before, during and after the Saturday election.” However, one of the campaign coordinators of PDP governorship election in Ondo State, Suffy Uguoji, described the allegation against Makinde as a diversionary tactics, saying Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, who is the APC candidate, and some APC governors had already brought hundreds of hoodlums into the state. Uguoji said respite came on Monday when the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of the election, Leye Oyebade, ordered a clampdown on the APC hoodlums attacking residents in some areas in Akure including Odopetu Junction. READ ALSO: Buhari’s aide, Wizkid exchange words on Twitter Uguoji said, “The allegation against Governor Makinde is one of their diversionary tactics. Akeredolu and his party, APC, have realised that they cannot win in a free and fair election hence the use of political thugs to attack non-APC members. “We want to appeal to security agencies to make sure that the hoodlums are not allowed to cause violence anywhere in the state. The PDP is confident of winning in a free, fair and violence free poll.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com