Ife Ogunfuwa The Managing Director, Intra-African Trade Initiative, Afreximbank, Kanayo Awani, has identified factoring as an important financing tool to support Small and Medium Enterprises. In a statement titled ‘Factoring as an alternative tool for financing SMEs in Africa’, he noted that SMEs accounted for over 90 per cent of firms worldwide and about 70 per cent of Africa’s industrial fibre. According to him, the small enterprises contribute significantly to employment and serve as a source of income to majority of people in developing economies. In Africa, for instance, Awani said SMEs employ about 80 per cent of the continent’s workforce and play a significant role in the region’s economic development. However, access to sustainable finance had been singled out as the key constraint to growth and development of SMEs in Africa, he said. “In this regard, they are noted to face greater financing obstacles than larger firms and are associated with higher transactions costs and higher risk premiums,” Awani said. Awani said, “Accordingly, developing market economies including Africa, continue to explore viable and sustainable financing options in support of SMEs. “It is against this backdrop that the relevance of factoring in Africa is highlighted as an alternative financing option for SMEs. “Indeed, for Africa to bolster trade, there must be accessible financing especially for SMEs.” He stated that factoring was an important useful vehicle to provide trade finance, as well as credit protection services to African SMEs. According to him, factoring, as an alternative source of financing, is gaining momentum in the continent. “A few years ago, there were a handful of factoring companies in Africa. However, there are currently 32 companies that are FCI members, with others yet to join. Africa is increasingly emerging from the shadows with factoring volumes growing steadily since 2015,” he added. He said the African Export-Import Bank continued to play a pivotal role in developing financing initiatives, laying emphasis on making factoring a strategic priority and elevating it as an alternative instrument to traditional commercial loans in financing SMEs. According to him, several small-sized factoring companies are emerging across the continent, particularly in Botswana, Senegal, Cameroon, Ghana, Nigeria, and Zimbabwe, which are expected to double Africa’s factoring business and volume over the next decade. He said volumes of factoring business were expected to exceed $50bn by 2025. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  