Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Wednesday tendered some items, including a cash sum of $25,000, as exhibits in the ongoing trial of a former Kaduna Central senator, Shehu Sani, who is being prosecuted on  charges of extortion. The EFCC had on January 27, 2020 arraigned the former senator for fraud involving alleged extortion of $25,000 from Alhaji Sani Dauda, who runs A.S.D. Motors. The commission alleged that Sani fraudulently represented the money as bribe for “the Chief Justice of Nigeria” and the acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu. At the resumed hearing in the case on Wednesday, the prosecution called an EFCC operative, Baki Aliyu, as the 10th prosecution witness. Led in evidence by the prosecuting counsel, Ekele Iheanacho, the witness narrated how Sani allegedly refunded the sum of $25,000 to Dauda after the complainant reported the alleged extortion to the EFCC in December 2019. He said following the commission’s instruction, Daudu recorded all the phone and physical conversations he had with Sani over the plan to refund the money. He said audio extracts were made from both Sani’s and Daudu’s phones. He said the commission noted that the CJN, for whom Sani claimed to have collected part of the money for as bribe, denied ever having any relationship with him in a press release published in various newspapers. He added that the commission subsequently wrote to the CJN whom he said maintained he had never seen Sani or received any money from anybody through him. The prosecuting counsel subsequently tendered as exhibits the $25,000 cash, which he claimed was refunded to the complainant by Sani. Other items tendered by the prosecution and admitted as exhibits by the court included the phones of both Sani and Daudu, two newspapers, which published the CJN’s denials, and Compact Discs containing audio recording of conversations between the former senator and the complainant. Also tendered and admitted as exhibits were CDs said to be containing the English versions of the original Hausa conversations between the two men. Justice Inyang Ekwo, with the consent of the defence lawyer, Abdul Mohammed (SAN), ordered the cash exhibits and the two phones to be returned to the EFCC for safekeeping but to be produced in court whether the court demanded them. The witness had yet to conclude his evidence-in-chief when the judge adjourned the matter to December 4 for further trial. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com