Dayo Ojerinde Non-governmental organizations, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre and Transparency International Nigeria have raised the alarm over the corruption in the procurement of HIV/AIDS drugs in the country. CISLAC and Transparency International Nigeria at a joint briefing on Thursday in Lagos urged the National Agency for the Control of AIDS to prosecute people inflating the prices of antiretroviral drugs in the country. The Executive Director, CISLAC, Mr Auwal Musa, said it was unfortunate that medicine financing in Nigeria was generally out-of-pocket. “The non-affordability triggered by high production and supply costs encourages the sale of fake and substandard drugs in the country, while consumers who are compelled to seek cheaper drug alternatives ceaselessly fall prey to fake and substandard drugs with damage to their health. “As the Nigerian government struggles to sustain the provision of free antiretroviral drugs as part of HIV programmes at health facilities in the country for an estimated 3.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS, this effort is mostly sabotaged by inflated prices quoted by supplying contractors, whose activities render government’s effort inadequate to eliminate the high and sometimes inequitable economic burden of HIV/AIDS on households. “CISLAC/TI Nigeria gathered that the contractors currently sell the anti-retroviral drugs at $13 per patient as against $7 given by the manufacturers. We are also concerned that over-reliance on donor funds in the fight against HIV in the country constitutes a dangerous trend to sustainability, hence the need for the government to take full ownership in the prevention and treatment of HIV in the country,” Musa said. He also lamented the strong resistance by some contractors to prevent the National Agency for the Control of AIDS from buying HIV drugs directly from original manufacturers. “We insist that fraudulent contractors who undermine the Public Procurement Act must be thoroughly scrutinised and discouraged from defrauding the government through inflated anti-retroviral drugs supply services. “The newly-appointed Director-General of NACA, Dr Gambo Aliyu, to engage stringent reforms in the Agency’s procurement process for impactful, efficient, cost-effective, wider and sustainable service delivery in Nigeria Corroborating Musa, a legal practitioner and a board member of CISLAC, Mr Adeshina Oke, stressed the importance of good health to leadership, productive economy, and healthy citizens Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com