Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Nigeria Postal Service on Friday announced the inauguration of surveillance teams in major post offices for mail security and the fight against scam mails. Post-Master General of the Federation, Ismail Adewusi, announced this on the occasion of the 2020 World Post Day celebration in Abuja. This came as the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, unveiled the stamp compendium of NIPOST in commemoration of the Post Day. Adewusi said the deployment of surveillance teams was part of efforts to check the activities of fraudsters who use post offices to carry out dubious business transactions. He said a scanning machine stationed at the International Mail Processing Centre, Ikeja, Lagos was detecting volumes of out-bound posted materials containing prohibited items. The NIPOST boss, however, noted that it was impossible to claim 100 per cent success in the agency’s fight against unscrupulous activities of fraudsters. Adewusi said the agency was doing its best to gain public trust, adding that in NIPOST’s efforts to secure mails and other cargoes, cages had been erected with use of tarpaulin to cover all items in custody before dispatching. He said, “As part of efforts to check the activities of fraudsters who use the post office to carry out dubious business transactions, we have put in place surveillance teams in all major post offices across the country. “They are to oversee the processing, bagging and dispatching of both local and international mail items.” On some of the prohibited items being detected by NIPOST, Adewusi said they included but not limited to fake currencies both in naira and dollars, forged cheques, international passports, money orders, among others. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com