Our Correspondents Two riot policemen and nine other persons have lost their lives in multiple crashes in Ondo, Ogun, Ekiti and Edo states. The Ondo crash claimed the lives of the two policemen, while eight others were injured in a crash that occurred on the Oba Ile-Airport Road, Akure, on Tuesday It was gathered the victims were in a Nissan pickup van with number plate NPF 9557C and were heading for the airport when the accident happened. An eyewitness said the crash occurred as a result of excessive speed at a sharp bend on the road, and consequently, the driver lost of the vehicle and crashed it. The Ondo Sector Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps confirmed the crash, which it said occurred as a result of speed limit violation, tyre burst and loss of control of the vehicle. According to the Sector Commander, FRSC, Mr Ahmed Hassan, two of the 12 persons involved in the crash died, eight were injured, while two escaped unhurt. “The victims were taken to the Police Clinic, Akure, by police officers and the good Samaritans; the obstruction was also cleared by the FRSC team,” he stated. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Tee-Leo Ikoro, confirmed the accident and said the command had commended investigation into it. “Two of the officers died, while some others sustained injuries. We have commenced investigation into the incident,” Ikoro said. In Ogun State, an Iveco truck crushed four persons to death after it rammed into a commercial bus and a motorcycle at the Phonex bus stop on the Sagamu-Ogijo Road. The crash, which occurred on Monday around 6.35pm, was reportedly caused by loss of control on the part of the truck driver. The Public Relations Officer, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the accident to journalists in Abeokuta on Tuesday. Akinbiyi explained that the crash involved six male adults and four female adults, adding that five persons were injured, while four died. He said, “The accident involved an Iveco truck and a Bajaj motorcycle with no number plates and a Danfo commercial bus with number plate FKJ 133 XX. “According to an eyewitness, the truck was parked outside a company’s premises and waiting to be called inside to load when the motor boy attempted to drive it in, but he suddenly lost control of the truck. “He rammed into the commercial bus and the motorcycle, killing the driver of the bus and two other passengers inside the bus, in addition to the motorcycle rider.” Akinbiyi said the injured and the deceased were taken to the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu. A commuter was, on Tuesday, killed in a crash involving a Toyota Camry car and a waste evacuation truck on the Ado Ekiti-Federal Polytechnic Road in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State. Eyewitnesses said two other occupants in the car sustained varying degrees of injury. An eyewitness said the two vehicles were travelling out of Ado Ekiti when the truck suddenly hit the car from behind, explaining, “We heard a big bang and on getting to the scene, the tipper lorry had hit the Camry from behind and pushed it into the nearby bush. “One of the occupants died on the spot. Blood was gushing out from his head, while the other two sustained fractures to their legs. The two persons, who sustained injuries, have been rushed to hospital for medical attention.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu, who confirmed the accident, said the victim’s corpse had been deposited in the morgue. Abutu said the two other persons who sustained injuries were being treated in the hospital, adding, “Yes, we are aware of the incident. The police are currently investigating the matter to know the next line of action. “It was a very pathetic story and we urge motorists to always measure their speed to prevent or reduce carnage on the roads.” It was a sad day in Benin on Tuesday as four persons were killed and four others sustained varying degrees of injury in an early morning crash at the Ahor-Bye-pass in the Uhunmwode Local Government Area of Edo State. The crash occurred around 7.22am and involved a 14-passenger bus and an articulated truck. It was gathered that the truck was making a U-turn on the road when the bus crashed into it. An official of the FRSC, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the crash and blamed it on excess speed by the bus driver. “If the driver was not on top speed, he could have avoided the fatal crash. Out of the 14 passengers, four died, while four others, who sustained injuries, have been taken to hospital,” he said. By Peter Dada, Daud Olatunji, Abiodun Nejo and Adeyinka Adedipe Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com