John Alechenu, Abuja Supporters of the All Progressives Congress, under the aegis of Concerned APC members, on Tuesday, suspended their planned nationwide protest. The group had two weeks ago issued a 14-days ultimatum to the party leadership, to either release a time- table for the national convention, or be prepared for mass action. The ultimatum expired by midnight on Monday. Spokesman for the group, Abdullahi Dauda confirmed this development to The PUNCH, in an interview, in Abuja. He explained that the suspension became imperative as a result of several entreaties by unnamed party leaders and the show of good faith by the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker /Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee. Dauda said, “We are loyal party members. We are not unmindful of the situation in the country today. I can confirm that some of our leaders talked to us and we also see reason to give the caretaker committee the benefit of the doubt since the Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, has come out to address some of our concerns on the issue of convention. “He said they are preparing the time table and that the committee is working very hard towards holding the convention within the time allocated for it to work. “We want to give them the benefit of the doubt to see whether they are deceiving us.” The group’s spokesman further explained that members agreed to suspend the proposed mass action in honour of youths who recently lost their lives during the #EndSARS protests. Dauda added that, as loyal party members, the concerned APC members will continue to identify with the aspirations of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who is determined to provide leadership to take Nigeria to the next level of good governance. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com