What is citizenship by investment? Citizenship by investment is the process of securing a second citizenship and passport by investing in the economy of the host country. Citizenship by investment programs legally bestow citizenship status faster than the regular immigration processes of a country. At High Net Worth Immigration, we offer direct citizenship by investment programs, as well as additional investment programs that ultimately lead to a second citizenship and passport. Our global residency and citizenship by investment programs portfolio includes the following countries: The UK, Ireland, Bulgaria, Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus The US and Canada St. Kitts & Nevis; St. Lucia, Grenada, Antigua & Barbuda, Dominica, Vanuatu, Belize, and Panama How can you benefit from citizenship by investment? There are countless advantages to obtaining a second citizenship—it quite literally provides a world of financial, business, travel, education and family benefits. Here’s an overview of the key benefits: Security A dual citizenship and passport can provide a safe haven during times of instability in your home country. It can be invaluable to have an alternate place to live in one of the below scenarios: Business A second passport in the right country can open up lucrative markets in the European Union, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, the Caribbean (via CARICOM) as well as North and South America. Mobility A second passport can open up visa-free and visa-on-arrival travel to hundreds of foreign countries. This enables you to jet-set as you please without the constant hassles of visa applications and fees. Visa-free travel opportunities vary by country, but it generally ranges from 100-150 countries for each program. Holders of some passports earn the right to travel to and reside in another country for up to 6 months per calendar year. Tax Benefits You’ve worked hard to earn your wealth and deserve to preserve it as effectively as possible. Advantageous tax policies are a key financial reason to seek a second passport. These include: Quality of Life Having a second passport enables you to enjoy the best of as many worlds as you please. The benefits of living in another country can include: SNAPSHOT OF HNWI’S MOST POPULAR CITIZENSHIP BY INVESTMENT PROGRAMS The UK Innovator Visa Program – Getting Down to Business The UK Innovator Visa was created for experienced professionals looking to expand their business acumen to the UK.  Applicants can establish their own business, or invest in an existing UK-based business, including innovative startups expected to grow significantly. Approved candidates can reside in the UK for 3 years at a time and bring their family members to the UK. After the initial 3 years, Innovators can apply to extend their stay for an additional 3 years or to settle permanently in the UK under indefinite leave to remain (ILR). How can HNWI assist you to apply for the UK Innovator Visa? We have a portfolio of pre-approved businesses that qualify for the UK Innovator Visa. The businesses we work with are all pre-endorsed by a government-authorized endorsing body because they are innovative, viable and scalable. This is determined by stringent criteria and very few businesses make the cut. Pre-endorsement makes the application process faster and more secure for the investor. Plus, the investor will get equity share and a salary from the business, which is relevant to the investment amount. Investment required: £200,000 or more Processing time: 3-4 months to innovator visa approval The UK Investor Visa – Rolls-Royce of Tier 1 Investments The UK’s Tier 1 Investor Visa program has been intentionally created to attract investors, entrepreneurs, and other highly-talented individuals that will drive business and prosperity in the UK. The UK Tier 1 Investor visa requires a qualifying investment in the UK. In order to qualify, the applicant must have at least £2 million (GBP) under their control and be able to show where the money came from if they’ve had it for less than 2 years. Within three months of entry into the UK, the applicant is required to invest a minimum of £2 million (GBP) that must be maintained until permanent residence is granted. After five years of continuous lawful residence, the principal applicant and respective family members may apply to be granted settlement, i.e., Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) in the UK. A qualifying investment is created exclusively for you when applying for your UK Tier-1 Investor Visa and provides 3 key benefits: Investment required:  £2 million, £5 million, £10 million Processing time: 3-4 months to investor visa approval Ireland Investor Program – The Best of Both Worlds: the UK and the EU The Ireland Investor Program offers the unique advantage of access to both Europe, and the UK.  This is due to the fact that Irish citizens have full access to Europe and, after Brexit, are the only country in the world with automatic permanent residency status in the UK under the Common Travel Agreement. The investment is in a senior debt fund regulated and authorized by the Central Bank of Ireland. It was the first Investment Fund established exclusively for the purpose of the Irish Immigrant Investor Program (IIP). The Fund provides senior debt to a range of Irish business sectors as designated by the Irish government’s priorities for the IIP, these include hotels, student accommodation and social & affordable housing. Investors applying to the IIP who seek a low-risk, reputable and highly regulated option are attracted to this investment option. To date, the Fund has a 100% approval rate for its investor applicants. Investment required: €1 million invested for 5 years, without interest and refunded after that Processing time: 4 months to investor visa approval Antigua and Barbuda -The Best Citizenship by Investment Value for Large Families Antigua and Barbuda’s Citizenship by Investment Program is currently the most cost-effective means for large families to obtain a second passport by investment. Antigua and Barbuda’s popular investment option, the University of West Indies Fund, has now increased the eligible family size from 4 to 6. The required investment sum remains the same, but now includes 2 additional dependents. Required Investment Amount: $150,000 for a family of 6 $15,000 for any additional dependents beyond 6 Scholarship: One member of the family is entitled to a 1-year tuition scholarship at the University of West Indies. Antigua’s passport offers visa-free access to 165 countries, including UK, Russia, India, Schengen zone, Hong Kong, Singapore, and the UAE. Investment required: US$150,000 (the University of West Indies Fund) Processing time: Up to 3 months to citizenship approval Grenada Citizenship by Investment – Two Birds with One Stone Grenada’s Citizenship by Investment Program is an incredible opportunity that opens a world of benefits. From visa on arrival or visa-free travel to 143 countries and territories, visa treaties with the US and China, to a variety of financial benefits, citizenship in Grenada offers increased mobility, generous taxation, and business opportunities. Furthermore, Grenada is the only country in the Caribbean that has both a CBI program and E-2 investor treaty with the US. This means that by obtaining citizenship in Grenada, investors can apply for an E-2 visa that allows them to start a business in the US and live there to operate it. Two ways to apply for Grenada Citizenship by Investment Investment required: US$220,000 (real estate option) Processing time: Up to 60 business days to citizenship approval Vanuatu Citizenship by Investment – The Fastest Citizenship by Investment Program The Vanuatu Citizenship by Investment Program is the fastest second passport program, and one of the most economical options currently available worldwide. The processing time is just 30 days! Vanuatu currently has the only Citizenship by Investment Program (CBI) in the Asia-Pacific Hemisphere and offers one simple investment pathway for investors via a donation to its Capital Investment Immigration Plan. Investment required: US$130,000 for a single applicant Processing time: 30 business days to citizenship approval Your opportunity to become a global citizen A second citizenship and passport opens up a world of benefits for you and your family. This is particularly timely as we try to overcome this unprecedented era during the global COVID pandemic. One of the top priorities during this challenging time is wealth protection and growth via stable investments–we can help you with both. We can help wherever you are If you are considering obtaining a dual citizenship and passport, please contact us for your free initial consultation. You can reach us via email info@high-net-worth-immigration.com, or in our newest office in Lagos, Nigeria: Nigerian Office Contact Person: Evans Ahanaonu Address: 7th Floor, Mulliner Towers, 39, Alfred Rewane Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria Office: +234 (0)1 448 9231 Mobile/WhatsApp: +234 701 039 4269 Email: evans@high-net-worth-immigration.com Website: www.high-net-worth-immigration.com