Adelani Adepegba, Abuja THE meeting between the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities deadlocked again on Wednesday, following the disagreement over the payment platform that would be used in disbursing the salary arrears and the N30bn Earned Allowances of the university lecturers. The FG team led by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, had offered to pay the salary arrears and the N30bn earned allowances of the university lecturers through the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System platform pending the roll-out of ASUU’s preferred platform, the University Transparency and Accountability Solution. But the ASUU delegation led by its National President, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi, reportedly insisted that the university teachers would not enrol on the government salary platform. The spokesman, Ministry of Labour and Employment, Mr Charles Akpan, explained that the meeting adjourned till Monday to enable the union leaders to get across to their members on the mode of payment. The parley is expected to reconvene on Monday to decide on the platform for the disbursement of the funds pledged by the FG. Among other things, the government had agreed to pay N40bn, being the pending Earned Academic Allowance of the university teachers overdue since November 2019. Out of the amount, N30bn would be paid on or before November 6, while the remaining N10bn would be spread equally over two tranches to be paid in May 2021 and February 2022. The two parties equally agreed to the planned release of N30b for the revitalisation of the education sector. The government offered to pay N20b as funding for the revitalisation of public universities by January 2021 as well as seek for sources of alternative and additional funding of the university system, among other conclusions. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  