Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The House of Representatives has called on the National Boundary Commission to demarcate the boundary between Nasarawa and Benue states to end communal clashes in the area. At the plenary on Wednesday, the House unanimously adopted a motion moved by Abubakar Nalaraba, titled ‘Need for the National Boundary Commission to Clearly Demarcate the Boundary Between Nasarawa State and Benue State.’ The House consequently urged the NBC to “immediately commence the demarcation of the boundary between the warring communities in order to curb incessant crises,” while mandating the Committee on Special Duties to convene a meeting of relevant stakeholders “for the purpose of the boundary adjustment and demarcation.” Moving the motion, Nalaraba decried the devastating effects of inter-state boundary disputes across the country. He said over the years, lack of clearly defined boundary demarcation between the communities of Awe, Doma and Keana in Nasarawa State and Guma and Makurdi in Benue State had continued to bring complex security and socio-economic problems to these communities. He said, “Before 1910, River Benue was the natural historical boundary line between Nasarawa State and Benue State, and any land from the north bank of the River Benue was in Keana as well as Awe and Doma. Between 1910 and 1924, following discussions among colonial administrators, the boundary was adjusted further inland from the north bank of River Benue through the 1916, 1919 and 1924 instruments of description, which, though was resisted by the Chief (Osana) of Keana as early as 1914. “Between 1985 and 1990, and to date, discussions among military governors and government officials on the same boundary adjustment yielded no positive result, yet the indigenes of Benue State are claiming further inland, whereas the 1916, 1919 and 1924 boundary instruments/description remain the last known and established gazetted instruments.” “The House is worried that if urgent steps are not taken to address this incessant dispute, it will further stall socio-economic improvement in the affected communities, increase violence, loss of more lives and damage of properties.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 