Daud Olatunji,  Abeokuta A 26-year-old generator repairer , Dare Olateju has been arrested by men of Harmonized Vigilante Group in Ogun State for attempting to steal a 2014 model Toyota Camry from a car-mart at Oke-Ilewo, Abeokuta, Ogun State. Olateju was reported to have hypnotised two workers at the car-mart and collected the car key from them, started the engine and attempted to drive it out of the compound when he was stopped by another worker. Our correspondent gathered that Olateju, who had locked himself in the car, opened the door and scaled the fence. The suspect was chased by the people in the area and was caught and handed over to men of harmonised VGN. The state Coordinator of harmonised VGN, Shola Shodiyan, said on Sunday that the incident occurred on Saturday. Shodiyan said the suspect and his accomplice would be handed over to the police. Shodiyan said, “According to the state Commander, Igborodowo Kazeen, he and members of his team accosted the thief, who jumped out of the car and tried to escape.” The suspect, a generator mechanic, said he had a dream that he was driving an exotic car and decided to make it happen. He said, “I went to two places where they sell cars. At the first place, I was told that the owner of the car of my choice had travelled. I decided to come to Oke-Ilewo car mart and I saw the Toyota car. READ ALSO: Why I didn’t request army, police to stop those who razed Nation, TVC – Tinubu The suspect, who said he did not have N7m to buy the car, denied hypnotising the workers, adding that he was just confident of taking the car away. One of the workers at the car mart, however, said he did not know what came over him that made him handed over the car key without payment. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 