Kayode Oyero To prevent further destruction of public infrastructure in Lagos State by hoodlums, the Federal Government has deployed more security forces to guard public assets in the state. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, made this known on Thursday morning while speaking in an interview on Arise TV monitored by The PUNCH. Sanwo-Olu revealed that the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Abayomi Olonisakin; and the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, called him on the phone on Wednesday. He said the two security chiefs asked to deploy more troops to secure public assets and he said, “Why not? The airports, seaports and other public buildings need to be secured.” Sanwo-Olu said, “The Chief of Defence Staff called me yesterday (Wednesday) to find out what is happening on ground. The Chief of Army Staff also called me to say that if I indeed require for the military to come out, they will deploy them. “You know there used to be an Operation Mesa – OPMESA – which they use with the Police Force. They said if that is not sufficient, they can bring out more security personnel especially to forestall destruction of properties, very strong strategic Federal Government installations. “And I said, why not, the airports need to be secured. The seaports need to be secured. All of the terminal buildings need to be secured. “Some of the public buildings need to be secured. “So, that is the level of support that we have got.” There have been reports of widespread arson and violence in the past few days as rampaging hoodlums looted, razed and destroyed public and private assets in the state. READ ALSO: Lagos may ease curfew Friday – Sanwo-Olu Sanwo-Olu had announced the imposition of a 24-hour state-wide curfew on Tuesday afternoon in the wake of the unrest. Hoodlums had taken advantage of the #EndSARS protests against police brutality and extrajudicial killings to wreak havoc and cause mayhem in the state. Banks, local government secretariats, police stations, the Palace of the Oba of Lagos, Shoprite Ajah, Nigerian Ports Authority head office, the governor mother’s house at Akerele, VIO/Federal Road Safety Corps’ offices at Ojodu, magistrates’ courts at Igbosere, TVC station, the Nation Newspapers office, and many others have been burned down in the last 48 hours. The situation was further worsened when soldiers, in a bid to disperse the protesters at the Lekki toll gate, opened fire on the youths. About 30 injured youths are currently receiving treatments at various hospitals around the Lekki area while eyewitnesses said no fewer than seven persons died in the attack. Speaking further on Thursday, the governor insisted that he never gave orders for the uniformed men to go to the protest ground. He said a Judicial Panel of Inquiry would commence an investigation into Tuesday night shootings next Monday.