Nike Popoola and Joseph Olaoluwa Azman Air, Air Peace, and Arik Air have all cancelled flights for its Lagos bound passengers, due to the 24-hour curfew imposed on the state by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The three airlines made the announcement on Tuesday in separate press releases. Azman airline made this announcement via its official Twitter handle on Tuesday. The tweet read, “This is to inform all our Lagos bound passengers that all flights are hereby cancelled till further notice “This is due to the directive issued by Lagos State Government to impose a 24-hour curfew on all parts of Lagos starting from 4pm today. “We deeply regret all Inconveniencies.” Air Peace in its flight advisory on Tuesday also included cancelled flights from Benin, noting that it would not operate flights from Lagos and Benin till further notice. The statement read, “This is to inform the general public that due to the newly imposed curfew in Lagos and Benin, we shall not be operating flights from these two locations till further notice.” Similarly, Arik Air too sent a notice cancelling flights for October 21, 2020 The statement said, “Arik Air has cancelled all its flight operations for October 21, 2020 due to the 24 hours’ curfew announced by the Lagos State Government on Tuesday, October 20, 2020. “All booked passengers on the cancelled flights are advised to reschedule their flights for later dates at no extra cost. “The Lagos State government announced a 24 hours’ curfew effective 4pm October 20, 2020.” The airline said travellers who had already booked flights could reschedule them at no extra cost. The Edo State Government, on Monday imposed a 24-hour curfew on the state till further notice following attacks on two correction centres in the state, which led to setting free of inmates by hoodlums. Lagos State Governor imposed a 24-hour curfew on the state effective 4pm on Tuesday. In a related development, some banks in Lagos State on Tuesday notified their customers that they had shut their Lagos branches following the imposition of a curfew on the state. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, imposed a 24-hour curfew on the state effective 4pm over concerns of violence following the continued #EndSARS protests. Other banks that were yet to announce closure of their Lagos branches informed their customers to make use of their electronic channels to do their transactions. Guaranty Trust Bank notified its customers in a mail titled ‘Important update on our banking operations in Lagos state during 24-hour curfew’. The mail read, “Dear customer, due to the 24-hour curfew imposed in Lagos State from 4pm today, please note the following: “All our branches in Lagos State are now closed and will remain closed for the duration of the curfew. “Our contact centre will only be available via WhatsApp.” First Bank of Nigeria which was silent on the curfew in a mail to its customers said, “Our digital banking channels are open for you. “All our alternate banking channels are available to you 24hrs.” Sanwo-Olu said in a statement, “I have watched with shock how what began as a peaceful #EndSARS protest has degenerated into a monster that is threatening the wellbeing of our society. “Lives and limbs have been lost as criminals and miscreants are now hiding under the umbrella of these protests to unleash mayhem on our state. “I therefore, hereby impose a 24-hour curfew on all parts of the state as from 4pm today, 20th October, 2020.” He added that nobody, except essential service providers and first responders, must be found on the streets. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com