Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta OGUN State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has described the widow of Chief Olabisi Onabanjo, the first civilian governor of the state, Mrs Lucy Onabanjo, as a woman of many parts. Abiodun said Mrs Onabanjo’s life and legacy would transcend many generations. The governor said this in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, in Abeokuta, in honour of the former governor’s wife, who turned 95, on Monday. Abiodun, praised the matriarch of the Onabanjo clan as a woman with a difference. According to Abiodun, the nonagenarian played less politics but was more interested in her family and husband’s welfare. The statement read, “She was as a foremost pillar of support for Chief Victor Olabisi Onabanjo, the pioneer executive governor of the state, who suffered a great deal of personal deprivations while struggling to make a name in journalism and politics. “Chief Onabanjo was a prolific writer, who wrote a popular column under the sobriquet, Aiyekooto. “I recall mama telling a journalist that her husband wasn’t interested in riches but in service to the people. That is the kind of support that made Papa Onabanjo a reference point in the political history of progressives in the country today. “Behind every successful man, they say, is a woman. Mama suffered a lot of personal deprivations when Pa Onabanjo was always on the move, but she kept the home front and ensured that the children and family didn’t lose track of their career paths. “I am very happy that at 95, Mama’s voice remains strong. She is still very smart and alert to the environment and has the goodwill of all kinsmen and women; husband’s associates and political children. “The nonagenarian, on her part, is a great educator, who trained a generation of Nigerians now straddle with key leadership positions across the various sectors of the nation’s economy.” “We are grateful to the Almighty God for sparing the life of Mama for her to continue to contribute her quota and make available her wealth of experience towards nation building. I pray she lives in good health to continue to support the socio-economic and political development of not only Ogun State, but also the entire country.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com