John Alechenu, Friday Olokor and Olaleye Aluko The First Lady, Aisha Buhari, on Saturday tweeted a song from an indigenous Hausa musician sending a plea to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to rescue the northern region from the ravaging insecurity. The 22-second music video, whose singer could not yet be ascertained, shows the images of four military chiefs and the Inspector-General of Police during security meetings with President Buhari at the Presidential Villa. This is just as a body of northern elders on Saturday urged the Federal Government to order an “independent forensic investigation into the expenditure of the Armed Forces from December 2015 till date.” The song tweeted by Aisha was with the hashtag, #achehejamaa translating to save the people. The song said, “Baba, please for God’s sake, consider our pleas for help; baba, please defend us; the North is crying, they are killing our people. They are burning our property; baba, please.” Northern leaders seek military probe Meanwhile, the northern elders noted that insecurity and hunger were reasons behind the continuous protests by #EndSARS campaigners in the country. While protesting against killings, intimidation and harassment of protesters by men of the Nigeria police, the elders under the aegis of the Coalition of Northern Elders for Peace and Development, called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to “urgently arrest the erring police officers and hoodlums responsible for the attacks.” These observations were contained in a communiqué issued on Saturday evening after the expanded meeting of CNEEPD held in Abuja. The communiqué was signed by Zana Goni, North East; Dr Mohammed Suleman, North West; and Prof Ofa Afolabi; North Central. The CNEEPD said that the best way possible for the President to restore public confidence in security agencies was, “the immediate restructuring beginning with the sack of the service chiefs.” READ ALSO: Insecurity: Your govt has failed Nigerians, Katsina group tells Buhari The 12-point communiqué reads in part, “We support in totality the continuous peaceful protests by Nigerians across the country over police brutality and call on the protesters to remain focused and peaceful. “We condemn the persistent insecurity in Nigeria particularly in the North, despite the huge investments so far running into trillions of naira to the Armed Forces of Nigeria. We call for an independent forensic investigation into the expenditure of the Armed Force from December 2015 till date. “We call on Mr. President to immediately sack the current service chiefs and restructure the entire security architecture of Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com