Our Correspondents The #EndSARS protest continued in different parts of the country on Sunday, with several youths injured after they were attacked by hoodlums. In Lagos, Leke Adeboye, the son of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, joined other Nigerian youths at the state secretariat at Alausa, Ikeja. Leke, who led the Sunday Church Service at the protest ground in front of the Lagos State Government House, said the demonstration signaled the beginning of a new Nigeria. “I want all of us to know that this nation has been handed over to us slowly but surely by this singular move that we are all here representing our families, friends and nation. This is the beginning of the new Nigeria,” he said. Also, protesters occupied the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, with a canopy pitched in front of PUNCH Place, the corporate headquarters of Punch Nigeria Limited at Magboro, Ogun State. They had loud speakers, a disc jockey and an ambulance stationed on the protest ground, as they sang and danced. The protest caused gridlock both inward and outward Lagos for long hours. In the Lekki area of Lagos, the youth arrested and handed over a co-protester, Yusuf Lawal, to the police for allegedly stealing the phone of another protester. PUNCH Metro gathered that after Lawal stole the phone, he handed it over to an accomplice, who absconded with it. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said efforts were on to arrest the fleeing member of the gang. Youths block CBN office in Abuja In Abuja, the #EndSARS protesters occupied the Central Bank of Nigeria. The mammoth crowd chanted ‘#EndSARS’ as they blocked the road and paralysed vehicular movement in the area. The group had earlier spent some hours in front of the office of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation located on Herbert Macaulay Way, Central Business District, before moving to the CBN located about two kilometres away. A member of the movement, Phillips Uche, said seven hoodlums who attempted to attack the protesters were chased away. Worshippers stranded in Benin In Benin, the Edo State capital, thousands of worshipers coming from their churches were stranded. Ekheuan Road in the city centre was most affected, as youths who had earlier planned the protest for Monday came out in large numbers on Sunday. The worshippers and many others were either forced to trek to their destinations or those in vehicles forced to take alternative routes, while those who had no other routes to take were made to part with money. In some cases, vehicles were attacked with sticks, clubs and hands. READ ALSO: Police officers probing my son’s killing by IGP’s men said they wouldn’t begin work until I give a bribe– Ex-naval officer’s wife Also, the entire stretch of the Auchi-Benin Road by the Eyaen area of the by-pass was blocked up to Aduwawa with only some commercial drivers chanting ‘Buhari must go,’ while driving dangerously through the road. The Benin-Lagos highway was still under the control of the protesters, who also worshipped at the spot on Sunday, thus making it impossible for anybody coming in or going out of the city to meander through the streets roads. There were also reported cases of robberies, phone and hand bang snatching by suspected hoodlums on Saturday night around Ring Road and Akpakpava areas of Benin City. Meanwhile, a member of the women’s national handball team, Isoken Nosa-Odia, says hoodlums were paid to attack #EndSARS protesters on Friday in Benin City, the Edo State capital. Nosa-Odia, who plays for Israeli side Hapeol Kiryat-Ono, said the hoodlums disrupted the protests along Plymouth Road. The veteran of three African Games, in a post on her Facebook page, wrote, “Hoodlums were paid to attack peaceful protesters with guns, cutlasses, which resulted to one dead and few others seriously injured. This obviously was the reason they were paid; youths were paid to attack youths at the King Square.” Bayelsa protesters attack IYC president The newly elected President of the Ijaw Youth Council, Peter Igbifa, was on Saturday evening attacked by #EndSARS protesters in front of the Bayelsa State Government House, Yenagoa. The youth, who were waiting for Governor Douye Diri to address them, accused Igbifa of refusing to mobilise IYC to join the ongoing protests against police brutality across the country. The IYC leader was said to be visiting the governor in company of a horde of bodyguards when he was attacked by the angry protesters, who called him a thief, while stoning him with sachets of water. A spokesperson for the IYC, Ebilade Efereke, described the protesters’ action as “sacrilegious and unacceptable.” The Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, however, directed the state Commissioner of Police, Mike Okoli, to immediately release a youth that was allegedly arrested during the protest. Diri gave the order when he marched with the #EndSARS protesters to the police headquarters in Yenagoa. One injured in cult clash in Kwara One of the #EndSARS protesters on Sunday was injured at the General Post Office area, Ilorin, when a vehicle allegedly hit him during a disagreement. An eyewitness said the misunderstanding started after a member of the Eiye cult called the attention of his colleagues to the presence of a rival cult member on the protest ground. Another member of his group was said to have cautioned him not to bring cult differences to the protest ground. As the argument continued, another cult member reportedly drove a car, which hit one of those involved in the argument, thereby injuring him. “The victim is in a critical condition at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital,” the witness added. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Ajayi Okasanmi, confirmed the incident. Delta #EndSARS protesters demand restructuring In Warri, Delta State, the protest took a new twist on Sunday when angry youths went on the streets with placards demanding immediate restructuring of the country. The protesters blocked the ever-busy Effurun and DSC roundabouts in Uvwie Local Government Area, thus halting vehicular movements, and in effect causing heavy gridlock in the area. Kwara gov condemns attacks on protesters The Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, on Sunday condemned the attacks on the peaceful #EndSARS protesters in parts of Ilorin, describing the violent attacks as despicable and intolerable. The governor, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye said, “I vehemently denounce the violent attacks on the protesters and I call on the security agencies to ensure that the dastardly act is addressed immediately. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] #EndSARS: Buhari mocks dead police victims “The daredevil attackers must be identified, arrested and prosecuted immediately. The attacks must not go unchallenged.” Controversy rages over Emmanuel’s N4m largesse to youths In Akwa Ibom, the N4m allegedly doled out by Governor Emmanuel Udom to #EndSARS protesters last Tuesday has reportedly split the youth in the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that the governor released the money shortly after he addressed the youth on that day following a request by the protesters for assistance to settle hospital bills of patients allegedly brutalised by the police, among other needs. One of the aggrieved youths, who asked not to be identified, said he had been inundated with calls from his friends to produce the N4m he allegedly collected from the governor. He said he was only given the sum of N500,000 for distribution to others, adding that he was not given N4m as claimed. Akinlade supports youths #ENDSARS protesters have vowed to hold a mega protest in some parts of Ogun State, including Sagamu Interchange, Oke-Mosan, Panseke, among other places in the state on Monday. The planned mega protest was communicated through digital posters shared on many social media platforms, calling for interested people to join from 6am to 6pm. This decision came as a former member of House of Representatives, Adekunle Akinlade, threw his weight behind the teeming Nigerian youths on the call for an end to police brutality in the country. Akinlade, in a statement issued by his media aide, Azeez Adelani, said Nigerian youths were justified in their peaceful demands against the defunct SARS officers who have little or no regards for human lives and civil rights. Police record 2,161 complaints, recover N6m bribe The Complaint Responses Unit of the Nigeria Police Force says 2,161 complaints bordering on extortion, torture, money for bail, abuse of office and job racketeering were lodged against policemen across the country in 2019. The unit also recovered a total sum of N6,667,000 bribes from various police formations, with N6m of the sum recovered at the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad office in Awkwuzu, Anambra State. These are contained in a release titled, ‘Highlights of 2019 Annual Report’ released on Saturday by the Officer-in-Charge of the CRU, ACP Markus Basiran. “Lagos State Police Command has the highest number of cases with 506 (23.42 per cent) complaints, followed by FCT Abuja with 306 (14.16 per cent) and Rivers 214 (9.90 per cent),” the report said. Workers’ union declares strike In Oyo State, a workers’ union, All Workers Convergence, declared support for the youths protesting and seeking an end to police brutality and bad governance in Nigeria. The AWC also declared a three-day strike in solidarity with the protesters, saying the protest was in the best interest of every segment of Nigeria. The National Coordinator of the AWC, Andrew Emelieze, in a statement on Sunday, said the strike would commence on Tuesday, October 20. By ‘Tana Aiyejina, Adelani Adepegba, Oladimeji Ramon, Deji Lambo, Afeez Hanafi, Adeyinka Adedipe, Daniels Igoni, Tunde Oyekola, Daud Olatunji, Dele Ogunyemi, Olufemi Olaniyi, Patrick Odey Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 