OLAIDE OYELUDE The Katsina State chapter of the Coalition of Northern Groups on Saturday said the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), has failed the state and the country in general for not protecting the lives and property of the citizens. The group – which stated this in a communiqué issued after a roundtable held on Saturday in Katsina, the state capital – also called for the restructuring of the country’s security architecture. Issues discussed at the roundtable included renewed banditry attacks, killings, and kidnappings in the state. The communiqué was co-signed by the group’s chairman, Jamiu Charanchi, and the secretary, Abubakar Kabir. In the communiqué, the group said, “The government’s attempts to reassert public confidence with repeated rhetoric of being on top of the situation seem to be worsening as killings and kidnapping for ransom have become a daily occurrence in most parts of the state. “The general consensus is that by any standard of judgment, the administration of President Buhari has failed the nation and in particular Katsina State in the vital area of improving the citizens’ lives and property.” The group said at the end of the roundtable, the participants resolved to make the following demands: “An immediate and comprehensive improvement of security in the state. “We demand a review of the entire national security architecture and the Katsina State Security Committee in order to inject higher levels of competence, integrity, and accountability. “We demand the promulgation of legislation to compel the review of the salary and general incentive packages of all men of the security services.” The group noted that continuous banditry attacks, insurgency, and kidnapping had left many people dead and displaced from their homes. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com