Ife Ogunfuwa The Federal Government has called for collaboration and cooperation of West African leaders in monitoring and halting illegal trans-border trade of solid minerals within the West African sub-region. The Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Uche Ogah, made the the call at the opening ceremony of Ouaga Dore, Gold West Africa in Burkina Faso, a statement issued by the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, Tine-Iulun MA, stated. Ogah, who was a special invitee of the Burkinabe Government, explained efforts being made to diversify the Nigeria economy through the minerals sector, especially the Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Initative. He said for the sub-region to properly harness the economic benefits of the abundant mineral resources, efforts must be made to curb illegal exploitation and transaction of minerals in the sub- region. He emphasised the need for sustainable peace and security in the sub-region to enable it leverage and harness the gold value chain for industrialisation and wealth and job creation for its teeming youths. The minister applauded the Burkina Faso Government for putting in place the right policies, which had increased investment in the mining sector of the country, and led to the development of the country’s artisanal and small-scale gold production. “You have made a quantum leap in the development of your artisanal and small-scale gold production and today’s presentation of refined gold bar medallions speaks volume to the international investors,” he said. He described the gold festival and presentation of gold bars sourced mainly from artisanal operators in the country, as ‘a significantly bold step in developing the gold and mining value chain and deepening integration across the West African economic corridor’. He commended the valuable contribution of Burkina Faso’s mining partners like Messrs. Kian Smith for their efforts towards the remarkable milestone. He described Messrs. Kian Smith as a major player in the Nigerian mining sector as it held a gold refinery licence and minerals buying centres. Earlier, the Minister of Mining and Quarries, Burkina Faso, Oumarou Idani, thanked the minister for honouring the invitation, saying the country was endowed with gold and manganese ,which were its main sources of its revenue. Idani stated that his country was working on attracting investors as well as supporting and  promoting the production of gold jewelleries for export within and outside Africa. “We have a history of gold jewellers craft men in the country,” he said. The Nigerian Ambassador to Burkina Faso, Mr Zachariah Ifu, said the Nigerian embassy was looking at areas of collaboration that would facilitate bilateral transactions between Nigeria and Burkina Faso in the solid minerals sector. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  