Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki THE Chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum and Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, on Monday, stressed that the South-East presidency come 2023, was currently the greatest desire of youths of the region. Umahi, who stated this during a state-wide broadcast in Abakaliki, explained that leaders of the zone, including governors, met with representatives of the youth in the South-East over the #EndSARS protests, on Sunday, noted that they had agreed to sheathe their swords for peace to reign. Umahi said, “I think the South-East should be allowed to produce the leader of the country. I’m sure their (youths) spirit is there. “We had a very useful discussion with the youths. They requested that we have a discussion with the President over their demands. They promised that their agitations and protests will end by the reason of their demands. Their voice has been heard and very loud. The President has taken steps to address their demands. “We condemn the shooting at Lekki; we will continue to call for accelerated investigation so that the culprits will be brought to book. “Our leaders are addressing the issues raised by the South-East youths. I will take their demands to Mr. President. The youth task governors of South-East to engage critical stakeholders in the ongoing protests in their respective states and local security architectures. “We have agreed that the youth be part of our budgeting. They demanded the rehabilitation of federal roads within the South-East. The Federal Government is already working on some of them. “All protests, provocative statements, divisive tendencies will be stopped immediately. They will reciprocate. We have directed our people all over the world to stop these protests.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com