Our Reporters The orientation camp of the National Youth Service Corps in Kubwa, a satellite town of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, was invaded by looters on Tuesday. They damaged property at the camp and made away with items such as mattresses, motorcycles, foodstuffs, and home and office equipment, among others. The incident, which began around 9.20am, threw the neighbourhood into pandemonium as soldiers shot in the air to disperse the looters, who initially defied the troops’ warning. It was gathered that the looters aimed at the food store of the NYSC camp, which was said to have been recently restocked with bags of rice and other food items ahead of its imminent reopening. The looters, who were armed with knives, cudgels and other weapons, blocked the road in front of the camp’s gate. They prevented motorists and other road users from passing before destroying the property along the way as they made their way into the camp in large number. One of our correspondents, who witnessed the invasion of the camp, reported seeing looters at different locations along the length of the road leading into the camp scaling the fence onto the premises. They invaders were later seen coming out of the camp with motorcycles, mattresses, plastic chairs, office equipment, drums painted in the NYSC colours, fans, flat screen televisions and kitchen utensils, among others. Some of the residents of the neighbourhood, including youths and women, also poured out into the streets to join in the looting. Those who did not participate in the pilfering were seen hailing the looters as they spirited away with the NYSC property. Some offered to help to keep the stolen items, so that the looters could make a quick return to the camp for another round of looting. A resident, who was disappointed by the looting of non-food items said, “They should have taken just the food items.” Some of the looters went away with the items in cars, buses, tricycles and motorcycles. Around 10.20am, soldiers began shooting as they chased the looters into the adjoining streets. The soldiers ordered those going about their routine business to enter their homes. A low-flying military helicopter hovered above the area for about 45 minutes, while police and military vehicles patrolled the area until calmness was restored around 2.30pm. Some residents said two persons were shot in the ensuing confusion. Later, the soldiers led some suspected workers at the camp to ransack a nearby motor park and other locations in the neighbourhood. They also broke into some makeshift stores, which they suspected that some of the looted items were kept. Some items were recovered in the course of the search. At a mechanic workshop, one of the workers was heard telling a soldier, “They removed air-conditioners from the camp; are those palliatives too?” While at a nearby location of young iron scavengers, where some looted items were recovered, an NYSC worker pointed to an iron window frame, which he said was removed from the residence of the camp director. Some items, including fans, drums, chairs, mattresses and plastic chairs were recovered during the search. No palliatives in our orientation camps – NYSC Meanwhile, the NYSC has stated that there are no COVID-19 palliatives in its 37 orientation camps nationwide. A statement on Tuesday by the NYSC Director of Press and Public Relations, Adenike Adeyemi, titled: ‘No COVID-19 palliatives in NYSC camps,’ the organisation said, “The spate of attacks on NYSC formations in search of palliatives, particularly the orientation camps, has become very worrisome. “Management wishes to restate that there are no palliatives in any of the 37 NYSC camps nationwide. “It is imperative to note that the National Youth Service Corps is a national institution saddled with the core mandate of promoting national unity and integration as well as youth development and empowerment. The mandate does not include warehousing and distribution of palliatives. “The Director-General, National Youth Service Corps, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, is making an earnest appeal for the cessation of further attacks on facilities of the institution.” Six policemen, four civilians killed in Lagos, 48 stations burnt The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has said six policemen and four civilians lost their lives during the unrest that followed the #EndSARS protests in various parts of the state. Odumosu, who disclosed this during a press briefing at the police command headquarters in Ikeja on Tuesday, said 38 policemen from various formations in the state were also injured, adding that the protests were hijacked by armed hoodlums. He said, “During the crises, six police personnel were gruesomely murdered. The policemen were ASP Yard Edward, attached to the Denton Station; Inspector Olayinka Erinfolami, attached to the defunct Anti-Kidnapping Unit; Inspector Adegbenro Aderibigbe, attached to the Meiran Division; Sergeant Abejide Abiodun, attached to DOPS SHQ, and two others attached to the Orile Division. “While four civilians also lost their lives during the crises, 38 policemen from various formations/locations within the state were injured. Odumosu also stated that 48 police stations, formations and posts were set ablaze and vandalised, adding that the affected facilities were aside the 71 police vehicles burnt and vandalised by hoodlums during the unrest in the state. 67 BRT buses, 80 motorcycles, tricycles razed He also said 21 facilities belonging to the government and private establishments were burnt and vandalised by hoodlums in the state. The CP said, “The public facilities set ablaze are the High Court complex Igbosere, Lagos Island; Lagos State DNA and Forensic Centre, Broad Street, Lagos Island; Ejigbo LCDA secretariat; the BRT terminal, Iddo, where 67 buses were burnt; and City Hall on Lagos Island. “The COVID-19 warehouse at Monkey village; BRT terminals in Ojodu and Ikotun; Ajeromi Ifelodun LG secretariat; the NPA head office, Marina; and the FRSC/VIO office at Ojodu, where only the vehicles parked outside the main buildings were burnt. “Some private facilities as well as other investments that were partly torched, vandalised and looted, include the Oba of Lagos’ palace; Television Continental station at Ikosi-Ketu; Access Bank; GTBank and Ebeano Supermarket on Victoria Island; The Nation Newspaper office on Fatai Atere Street, Matori, Mushin, where only vehicles were burnt; Shoprite malls at Ajah; LTV 8, Alausa, Ikeja; Samsung outlet on Apo roundabout, Festac; Shoprite at Festac; and Samsung office, Oyingbo, etc.” Odumosu added that 520 suspects had been arrested in connection with the arson, vandalism, burglary, looting and robbing of unsuspecting members of the public of their valuables during the unrest. Our soldiers acted within rules of engagement – 81 Div The 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Lagos, has explained that its troops were invited to enforce the curfew imposed by the Lagos State Government. It said the troops were asked to restore law and order 24 hours after the curfew was declared. The army, however, insisted that the soldiers did not shoot at the #EndSARS protesters, adding that the personnel acted within “the confines of the rules of engagement for internal security operations.” This was contained in a statement on Tuesday titled, ‘Press release on alleged massacre of protesters at Lekki toll gate’, signed by the acting Deputy Director, 81 Division Army Public Relations, Major Osoba Olaniyi. Looters steal 110 tractors, others in Adamawa The Chairman, North East Commodity Association, Alhaji Sadiq Umar-Daware, has said looters have taken away 110 new tractors and implements from the group’s warehouse in Yola, Adamawa State. Umar-Daware, who made this known in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria in Abuja, said the looters also broke into the main warehouses of the Rice Farmers Association, and the Maize Farmers Association of Nigeria and made away with farm inputs. He said the looters broke into another warehouse filled with fertilizers and stole several bags and farm implements arranged for distribution to farmers in preparation for the commencement of the planting season. According to Umar-Daware, NECAS has many tractors, because it was incorporated to provide among other services, tractor leasing and mechanisation service to farmers. “What they took away include tonnes of rice, beans, maize, sorghum and millet, computers, tables, chairs, office equipment, water dispenser and cash. “Based on our own findings, they have kept some of the tractors in some people’s garages and when reports were made to security agencies, the response was not favourable.” 18 suspected looters nabbed in Ondo The Ondo State Police Command, on Tuesday, paraded 18 persons, who were allegedly involved in the looting and vandalism of property during the #EndSARS protests, which rocked the state last week. According to the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Bolaji Salami, the suspects include Adekunle Isaac, Adelusi Oluwaseun, Sunday Tosin, Ayodele Bukunmi, Anu Obinna, Ogunniyi Kemisola and Ojo Samuel. Others are Adebusoye Samuel, Sodeeq Abu, Oforjeke Excel, Adebayo Dida, Olaiya Damilola and Olu Ajayi. Also paraded were Oguntoyinbo Ayomide, Emmanuel Godwin, Mathias John, Ogunjibi Monday and Ibrahim Olalekan. The CP said the suspects were apprehended in different areas of the state through the efforts of the men of the command. He also expressed regrets over the attack on some police stations in the state by hoodlums. Kogi pastor, others nabbed for alleged N1.2bn medical items’ looting The Kogi State Government has announced the arrest of a pastor and his accomplices for allegedly looting medical equipment worth N1.2bn. A statement issued on Monday by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Onogwu Mohammed, said Pastor Sunday Edino and his accomplices were arrested by the state Commissioner of Police, Ayuba Ede, during Monday’s looting of a warehouse in Zone 8, Lokoja. The statement reads, “As the hoodlums continue the looting spree across states in Nigeria, luck ran out on Pastor Sunday Edino and his accomplices, who were arrested with medical equipment in Lokoja by the state Commissioner of Police, Ede Ayuba, and his men on Monday. “Medical equipment worth over N1.2bn kept in a warehouse in Lokoja were vandalised and looted by hoodlums.” 71 arraigned for looting in Kwara Another 71 suspects were on Tuesday arraigned before an Ilorin Magistrates’ Court for alleged involvement in the looting CACOVID palliatives at the Agro Mall and Cargo Terminal in Ilorin. The police charged them with criminal conspiracy, trespass, belonging to gangs of thieves, mischief, voluntarily causing grievous hurt, theft and disturbance of public peace. The police prosecutor, Inspector Nasiru Yusuf, told the court that the accused were arrested on Friday and Saturday at the Agro Mall and Ilorin Airport Cargo Terminal when they were looting the palliatives. He said the investigation into the case was ongoing and left the bail of the accused persons to the discretion of the court. Magistrate Mohammed Ibrahim granted each of the accused bail in the sum of N200,000 and two sureties in like sum. The case was adjourned till November 18, 2020, for further mention. We lost N300m assets to protests – Ondo oil palm firm The Okitipupa Oil Palm Plc has lamented the attack on its corporate headquarters in Okitipupa, Ondo State, by hoodlums during last week’s #EndSARS protests, which took place in some major towns in the state. Several buildings on the premises of the company were looted and razed down by the hoodlums. Speaking on the development during the inspection of the vandalised facilities on Tuesday, the Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr Taiwo Adewole, described the action of the mob as “barbaric, brutal and horrendous,” alleging that it was carried out by organised enemies of the firm with the hidden agenda of grounding it and returning it to a moribund state. Adewole stated, “There are certain items and consumables, which values cannot be easily quantified; however, in terms of buildings and physical structures burnt and those carted away, I can put the loss at about N300m. “This company, with all its plantations scattered across three local government areas in the state, is a commonwealth in which all residents are stakeholders, shareholders and beneficiaries one way or the other, and to that extent, everyone has a moral duty to protect all its facilities, including the plantations.” Ex-Ekiti lawmaker, four others arraigned for arson, felony The Ekiti State Police Command, on Tuesday, arraigned five persons before an Ado Ekiti Chief Magistrates’ Court for alleged involvement in riot and burning of property during the #EndSARS protest. The defendants, a former member of the state House of Assembly, Dayo Akinleye (42); Ariyo Afolabi (56); James David (25); Busola Ajimoko (30); and Oyin Filani (23), are standing trial on three counts of conspiracy to commit felony, rioting and burning of three trucks. The police prosecutor, Mr Johnson Okunade, told the court that the defendants committed the offences “on or about October 20” in Ado Ekiti. Okunade alleged that the defendants and others at large conspired to commit felony, which was punishable under Section 516 of the Criminal Code, Cap C16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. Chief Magistrate Olanike Adegoke admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties each, adding that each of the sureties must be a civil servant on grade level 12. The chief magistrate adjourned the matter till November 11 for further hearing. Empty warehouse: APC tackles Bauchi gov over 118 palliatives trucks The All Progressives Congress in Bauchi State has questioned the state government on the whereabouts of 118 trucks of foodstuffs donated by the Federal Government since it claimed that looters invaded the COVID-19 palliatives warehouse and found it empty. Governor Bala Mohammed had on Sunday tweeted on his verified Twitter handle that hoodlums invaded the warehouse, where COVID-19 palliatives were kept, but were disappointed because it was empty. The governor said all the palliatives received by the state government were shared to the beneficiaries across the state. He added that the Chief of Staff, Government House, Dr Ladan Salihu, ordered that the warehouse be opened to the hoodlums but they left disappointed because there was nothing inside. But the APC said in a statement signed by its state Publicity Secretary, Adamu Jallah, that it observed with dismay the claim by the Peoples Democratic Party government in the state that it distributed all palliatives received from the Federal Government to the people of the state, describing it as “a baseless claim.” The party said that the state government shared only the palliatives donated to the state by the Coalition Against COVID-19. It added that if the government claims that it had distributed the palliatives across the 20 local government areas of the state, then it should publish the names of beneficiaries through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs. Butthe Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, Yaya Zainabari, dismissed the APC’s allegations saying that the palliatives were shared across 19 of the 20 LGAs in the state. Meanwhile, the governor has set up a 17-man panel to investigate cases of alleged human rights abuse by SARS operatives in the state. Looted items: Fintiri issues 12-hour ultimatum, plans house-to-house search Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State has given looters in the state 12 hours to return all stolen items. Fintiri, who said looters had up until 6am today (Wednesday) to return all looted items before he would issue an executive order for a house-to-house search to enable the recovery of every looted item. The governor also warned that the executive order would confer on the government the legal authority to withdraw the certificate of occupancy of the property where such items would be found and demolition of such property. Minister weeps over destruction, looting in Calabar The Minister of State for Power, Goddy Jedy-Agba, on Tuesday, shed tears over the level of destruction of government institutions and property in Calabar, Cross River State. The minister, who was on tour of some vandalised Federal Government institutions in Calabar, wept as he entered his car after the inspection. “This is like one coming out of war. I am shocked beyond expression,” he said. Jedy-Agba visited the West African Examinations Council branch office in Calabar; the Cross River Basin Development Authority headquarters; the Nigerian Television Authority, Channel 9, Calabar; and the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Calabar. While addressing some youths at Ekorimin and Ikot Eneobong communities, the mMinister said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), sent him to assess the situation in the state and report back.  #EndSARS protest,  looting about 2023 – Kogi gov Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has said the #EndSARS protests as well as the looting of warehouses storing COVID-19 palliatives are about the 2023 general elections. Bello said this on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily programme on Tuesday, which was monitored by one of our correspondents. “I did say when COVID-19 came into this country that a few people were going to profiteer from it and that is what has happened. And I am saying it again that a few individuals are setting certain agenda for 2023. Now, from #EndSARS to hoodlums stealing CACOVID palliatives to various youths or people saying IPOB and making statements. Various groups are making statements,” he stated. He, therefore, called on youths to leave the streets and return home and not allow themselves to be used by politicians. “Whether we like it or not, this is 2023 being played out by a few individuals, who feel they can continue to use us in this country, and I am urging all youths across the country to return home,” the governor said. Ganduje raises peace panel to prevent recurrence of mayhem Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, is to constitute a peace committee to reconcile the different groups, who participated in the #EndSARS protests, which caused collateral damage in the state. Ganduje, who made the disclosure during an enlarged stakeholders’ meeting held at the Government House, Kano, on Tuesday, affirmed his preparedness to implement and adopt measures to prevent a reoccurrence of the mayhem that rocked the state, which was characterised by looting, arson, killing and collateral damage to property. Ganduje stressed the state government’s commitment and determination to intensify community policing, adding that it would be extended to all the 44 local government areas with the active participation of traditional and religious leaders at the grassroots level. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   