Joseph Olaoluwa Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, has committed to spend N2.3bn on the development of Dala Inland Dry Port in Kano State. Ganduje, who paid a working visit to the Nigerian Shippers’ Council in Lagos on Friday, said the money was for the development of the first phase of the port which he believed would boost Kano State’s economy and that of Nigeria in general. The governor also called on the council to ensure that inland dry port was linked with the railway network, stressing the need for effective collaboration between shippers and shipping lines. He said, “The reason why we are here is to create a synergy between the shippers council and other stakeholders to ensure that the inland dry port in Kano is actualised. “For more than 10 years this project was initiated in Kano but there was no enabling environment to make sure it was actualised. With the coming of our administration, we are committed to seeing that the dry inland port is a reality. “For phase one of it, we have committed N2.3bn to provide access roads, electricity, water to the site. We are ready for the take-off of this very important project. We are here to show the shippers council that Kano state has come of age as far as the dry port is concerned. “The inland dry port is not only serving the Kano people, but it is also serving the northern part of this country, West African countries like the Republic of Niger and it is serving the Republic of Chad and the northern part of Cameroon. Import is made easy as well as export. Kano has come of age.” The Executive Secretary of NSC, Hassan Bello, described Kano State as a centre of trade and commerce in Nigeria, adding that the State’s economic viability made the Dala Inland Dry Port very significant. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com