Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin CANDIDATE of the All Progressives Congress in the September 19 governorship election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has said he will pursue pre-election cases against the winner and incumbent governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, rather than go to the tribunal to seek redress. Ize-Iyamu is challenging Obaseki’s eligibility to contest the election, noting that the outcome of the pending case would have effect on the election. In a statement he signed and made available to journalists in Benin on Monday, the APC candidate noted that the steps were lawful and integral parts of the electoral process in any democracy, which everyone must respect. He added, “The outcome of these pending cases has direct effect on the election. Consequently, we have decided to continue with our pre-election cases in full exercise of our legal rights, just as our opponents have considered it their prerogative to also continue with their pre-election cases against us.” Ize-Iyamu said contrary to reports, the election was neither free nor fair. He said, “There were several episodes of violence, voter intimidation and falsification of results. “There were unlawful cancellations of results particularly from Urhonigbe South and North in Orhiomwon, while results were falsified from many polling units in Ofunama in Ovia South-West, and in parts of Ovia North-East, Owan West, Oredo, Egor, Ikpoba-Okha, Esan North-East, Esan West, Esan South-East, and Uhunmwode Local Government Areas,” he said. Reacting, the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chris Nehikhare, said, “We reject and condemn his jaundiced position on the election and we advise him to show respect to the wishes of Edo people. He should respect their views and decisions as Edo have been very kind to him. “Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu should know that he cannot retrieve what he lost at the polls in court. The PDP, Governor Godwin Obaseki and the Edo people are waiting for him. The reality is that Edo has been reset and all hands are needed to sustain the gains of the last four years and move the state to greater heights.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com