Friday Olokor, Abuja Stakeholders in the All Progressives Congress in Yobe State, on Sunday, demanded the impeachment of Governor Mai Mala Buni by the state House of Assembly if he fails to resign. The APC stakeholders premised their demand on the governor’s alleged “unavailability in the state to discharge his constitutional duties as governor of Yobe State.” They said Buni “has abandoned the state completely and only visits once in a month.” The Chairman, Yobe APC Stakeholders, Hussain Muhammad, made the demand in a statement issued at the end of their meeting in Abuja. According to him, it has become expedient to draw the attention of the public, especially the state House of Assembly, to the aberration of having a governor “who is non-functional.” The stakeholders said Buni was not elected as the APC National Chairman, but as Yobe State governor and he swore to obey the constitution, adding that it was their position that he had become a self-serving governor, who failed and betrayed his people when they needed him the most. “Individually and collectively, we have committed our lives to the service of our great state and nation in different capacities in the past, but we are concerned about the developments in the state under the current administration,” they said. The PUNCH reported that Buni, who was earlier in the year inaugurated to pilot the affairs of the APC as Chairman of its Caretaker Committee, was expected to settle the lingering crises in the party and conduct election for new executive. Muhammad said, “We, therefore, consider it imperative for us to leave our comfort zones to add our voices to the solutions that will restore the fate of the people of Yobe once again. “As stakeholders, we have made both individual and collective efforts at letting Mai Mala Buni realise his mistakes, but it appears that as we inch closer to making him realise, he digs in further into his sit-tight plans at the party’s secretariat. “We, therefore, call on the Yobe State House of Assembly to begin impeachment process if he fails to resign as governor. In the event that he is no longer interested in being governor, we have many qualified people that can fit in and save our party and people in the state.” When contacted, Buni’s Media Adviser, Mamman Mohammed, said “We won’t dignify this faceless group with a response. There was no meeting of stakeholders in Abuja. The whole thing is an attempt by an attention seeking individual, who is desperate for public attention.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 