Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin A group, Concerned Edo Citizens, has called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to investigate alleged corruption perpetrated by the administration of a former state governor and ex-National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, in the construction and procurement of equipment for the Edo Specialist Hospital. Armed with placards bearing inscriptions like ‘End Corruption Now’  and ‘End Impunity Now,’ the group in a peaceful protest march to the Benin zonal office of the EFCC on Friday said they decided to remind the anti-graft agency to probe the circumstances that led to the alleged misappropriation of funds running into billions of naira in constructing the hospital. Teddy Osagunywenwan, who spoke on behalf of the group, said the protest was in line with the recent calls to end police brutality, corruption amongst others. “We were here three months ago, and we are here again in form of a protest to ask the EFCC to investigate the circumstances that led to the loss of billions of naira in the hospital project. They were unable to equip the hospital and through that process, we have lost several persons in Edo State. “Before now, we were asked to submit a petition, and we did so through our lawyer. But over three months now, we have not been informed about the petition. That is why we decided to come here to remind them to probe Oshiomhole so that he can tell us how he spent the money on the project,” he said. The state Head of Public Affairs of EFCC, Williams Oseghale, who received the protesters, assured them that the commission would look into the petition. The state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, had inaugurated a Commission of Inquiry, led by Justice James Oyomire, to look into the construction of Edo Specialist Hospital and supply of equipment. Following the commission’s findings, they indicted the governor’s predecessor (Oshiomhole) for the breach of the state’s procurement laws in the award of 75 per cent of the contract sum upfront for the project instead of 25 per cent upfront payment upon contract award for the construction of the hospital. The multibillion-naira hospital is a 200-bed emergency ward that was constructed in 2016 and opened for use in 2019. When contacted, a spokesman to Oshiomhole, Victor Oshioke, said he would make a formal response after reading the protesters’ demand in the press. “I cannot react if I do not see exactly what they said. Maybe you can go to the press. We will respond when we read it,” he said. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com