Sodiq Oyeleke A former Commissioner for Home Affairs in Lagos State, Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, has resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress. In his Independence Day message, AbdulLateef said his decision to resign was due to the rejection of his movement and governorship ambition by some “close leaders” he respected in the party. The one-time lawmaker launched “Iyepe 2023” on Tuesday, a movement to galvanise Lagosians to develop more interest in politics and curb voter’s apathy. The action led to the termination of his appointment as the Special Adviser to the Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly on Religious Affairs. Abdullateef, however, thanked Bola Tinubu, whom he described as a great leader. “When I joined politics, he was there for me and assisted me greatly to occupy very enviable positions in the government. He has developed so many other individuals in very many capacities,” he said. He also commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, House of Assembly Speaker, Mudasiru Obasa, other leaders of the party, and the past governors that he had worked with. The former commissioner said, “I am an indigene of Lagos state and an Awori by birth. I, therefore, have a duty to take positive steps including admonitions and practical reorientation of our people towards the ideal society we crave for. “My desire is to win the pleasure of my Lord which no political position can replace and that is why I am not desperate. I will be totally fulfilled when I am able to make efforts to enlighten our people about good governance, welfarism, the growth and development of the youth, the care of the elderly, the growth of the private sector, the ideals of constitutional democracy, and better lifestyles for the leaders and the led. “This movement has been rejected by some close leaders I respect. I have, therefore, decided to leave the party in order not to create disunity within the party. Please do not persecute or victimise my followers who have chosen to stay in APC. “I leave them all in the care of the Lord. I am more concerned about paradise and I  am not afraid of death. I will continue to preach the word of God and invite all Nigerians regardless of their religions, colour, and race to be determined to be different. We cannot continue this way.”