inq.Digital Nigeria Limited is a Cloud and Digital service provider with presence in 6 African countries (Nigeria, Botswana, Zambia, Cameron, Cote d’Ivoire, and Malawi). inq. Digital delivers cutting edge solutions across five major service categories:  Edge AI Solutions, SDN/NFV Solutions, Cloud-Based Solutions, Digital Solutions and Intelligent Connectivity. inq.Digital is a leading digital service provider, leveraging its core strengths of innovation, exceptional customer service and regional expertise to provide global digital methodologies tailored to suit local customs, as well as unlock simpler, seamless digital solutions to complex challenges. Our experience in African telecommunications spans over two decades and today, we connect over 1200 of the continent’s largest and leading corporations in over 40 countries. We work closely with multinationals in all sectors of African commerce – from banking and finance, oil and gas, mining and construction to retail and distribution and tourism. inq. Digital’s acquisition of Vodacom Business Nigeria underscores its recognition of the opportunity presented by the size of the Nigerian market, the strong position of the acquired brand in Nigeria and the additional value that can be unlocked by the fusion of these attributes with inq. Digital’s unique capabilities. Current and future customers of inq. Digital Nigeria limited will enjoy innovative, cost-effective and seamless cloud and digital solutions that position their businesses for optimal growth and value creation, this will be driven by its creative, curious and courageous nature, inq. Digital’s vision is to re-imagine a better future through digital solutions. inq. Digital is fully committed to its vision of being a game-changer in the Nigerian market, using its unique attributes which are unmatched by competitors to provide even more innovative products, designed to the customer’s specific needs. With inq. clients will enjoy even more intelligent connectivity through the seamless delivery of cloud, digital services and digital technologies. For more information, please visit: ng.inq.inc