Chukwudi Akasike The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties has again warned the Federal Government that the continued deployment of security agencies and sponsoring of hoodlums to attack unarmed peaceful protesters in the country may lead to anarchy. The CNPP in a statement titled “CNPP again warns FG: Continued killing of #EndSARS protesters can end Nigeria,” signed by its Secretary General, Chief Willy Ezugwu, on Wednesday, described the ongoing arson in Lagos State and other parts of the country as the “price of insensitivity.” The statement read in part, “The adamant Federal Government and the ruling All Progressives Congress is currently reaping the fruits of stubborn impunity and lack of attention to the basic needs of the Nigerian people in the past five years. “In their characteristics, the warning by the CNPP that attempting to use force on the #EndSARS protesters would be catastrophic was ignored and the result is obvious. “Again, the CNPP warns that the ongoing crackdown on young people across the country will aggravate the anger in the land just as the shooting of peaceful protesters in Lagos by those who planned and executed it was counterproductive, inhumane, and wicked. “We are aware that both the Federal Government and the Lagos State Government have denied involvement in the shooting. “However, there is a need for the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to tell Nigerians those who turned off the lights and removed the CCTV cameras at Lekki Toll Gate before the shooting. “How come those men in military uniform showed up and opened fire on the unarmed peaceful protesters holding the national flag while singing the national anthem. “If indeed the APC-led government that controls the security architecture of the country never ordered the shooting and never got intelligence ahead of the gruesome attack, then it’s time for President Buhari, the Chief of Army Staff and other security chiefs in the country to resign. “The government must know that the ‘unknown soldier’ theory cannot work in this digital age.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com