Ife Ogunfuwa The Nigerian Communications Commission on Sunday said it was examining sustainable funding solutions for the rollout of fibre infrastructure across the country. The commission in a statement signed by the Director, Public Affairs, NCC, Dr Ikechukwu Adinde, said it had created a committee that would review the framework for the licensing of infrastructure companies and recommend viable funding options. This, according to the telecoms regulator, became necessary in view of the recommendations made in the Nigerian National Broadband Plan 2020-2025 and reports of relevant committees set up by the Federal Executive Council. The statement is titled ‘NCC reviewing infraCo framework, funding options’. It stated that the committees included the Inter-Ministerial Review Committee on Multiple Taxation on Telecommunications Operators over Right-of-Way and the Technical Sub-Committee on Right-of-Way for Deepening Broadband Penetration in Nigeria. The NCC said the committee would take into consideration the delays in the take-off of the project, change in exchange rate, supply chain and other challenges imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The commission said the committee had met with all licensed infraCos and the preferred bidder for the North-Central zone. According to NCC, the committee is also looking at the challenges facing the InfraCo project, the need for accelerated deployment of fibre infrastructure and means of mitigating the exorbitant RoW charges, among others. It added that the commission was also working with the Broadband Implementation Steering Committee constituted by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, based on the recommendations of the Nigerian National Broadband Plan. Providing updates on the status of the InfraCo project in his office in Abuja, the Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said, “The InfraCo project is dear to the government because of its ability to enhance robust and pervasive broadband infrastructure to drive service availability, accessibility and affordability.” The NCC boss explained that the current status of the InfraCo project was contrary to reports suggesting that the commission was close to executing the counterpart funding in respect of the project. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  