Temiloluwa O’Peters The African Development Bank Group has announced the appointment of Dr Alex Mubiru as Director, Strategy and Delivery, in the Office of the President and Ms Yacine Fal as the Director General, Cabinet Office of the President, effective November 1. A statement issued by the bank on Tuesday said Mubiru, a citizen of Uganda, was currently the African Development Bank Group’s Country Manager for the United Republic of Tanzania. According to AfDB, Mubira worked as a Research Associate, International Economics Programme, at the Thailand Development Research Institute and later on as Project Economist for the World Bank, Thailand office. He was Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, Singapore and Assistant Professor of Social Science, Singapore Management University. He joined the bank as a Principal Research Economist, then served as a Principal Country Economist, Lead Strategy Advisor, Strategy and Operations Policy Department and as Task Manager for the development of the bank’s 2013-2017 Private Sector Strategy. He was appointed Manager, Resource Mobilisation Department and in 2018, AfDB President, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, appointed him as Country Manager, Tanzania Country Office where he managed a portfolio of more than $2.3bn. Commenting on the appointment, Adesina said, “Alex is a well-rounded professional with the maturity and temperament suitable for the role. “His deep institutional knowledge and demonstrable track record of performance will support my commitment and drive to ensure greater performance and delivery on my vision and mandate and on institutional commitments made to shareholders.” Mubira expressed delighted to work directly with the president to support his vision and strategy for the bank and ensure strategic alignments and delivery accountability across board. The bank also stated that as Director General, Fal would oversee the administrative and operational work and activities of the Cabinet Office of the President. According to AfDB, she would provide oversight of all units and departments directly reporting to the president and ensure delivery efficiency and effectiveness for presidential initiatives and bank operations, as per agreements with respective Vice Presidency Complexes. She would also oversee the work of senior staff to improve overall coordination and engagement of the President and Chairman of the Board of Directors with the Board. Fal, a Senegalese, is said to be a seasoned and results-oriented business development and service delivery professional with over 20 years of experience in banking, legal and procurement fields.