Nike Popoola The Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists has called on the Federal Government to intervene in the ownership dispute between HealthPlus, a pharmaceutical retail concern, and its equity investment partner, Alta Semper Capital. NASSI made the call in a statement signed by its Director-General, Ifeanyi Oputa, on Sunday, with the title ‘HealthPlus crisis: NASSI urges FG to intervene.’ It said there was a need for the Federal Government to promote and protect businesses founded by Nigerians who, in spite of the country’s notoriously difficult business environment, had created thriving concerns. While admitting that it was yet to have full details of the events leading to the announcement of the sack of Mrs Olubukola George, HealthPlus founder, as the company’s chief executive officer by the foreign private equity firm, NASSI said the Federal Government urgently needed to intervene in other controversial equity transactions involving Nigerian-owned businesses. Oputa said, “We are not fully apprised of the facts and would thus not be drawn into aspects of this case, which Mrs George is fully capable of defending. “NASSI is, however, calling upon the Federal Government to wade into this matter and indeed other questionable private equity transactions across Nigeria as a matter of urgency.” He noted that governments around the world had always identified key business players on the local scene and provided appropriate support for them to grow into multinationals. “Some countries have sent out gunboats and gone to war to protect the interests of these firms because of what they represent to the people and nation-state,” he said. NASSI noted that HealthPlus had played a unique role in the Nigerian pharmaceutical industry, with the potential to become a leader on the continent, especially with the imminent implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 