Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The family of a woman, Victoria Ibrahim, in Rumuekpe, Emuoha Local Government Area of Rivers State, has accused members of a vigilante group, the ONELGA Security Peace and Advisory Council, of killing it daughter. Ibrahim’s cousin, Baron Wisdom, told journalists in Port Harcourt that the 49-year-old mother of five was shot dead by one of the OSPAC members when she visited Rumuekpe community on Friday. Wisdom stated that the police were aware of the incident but expressed sadness that no arrest had been made. He said the Divisional Police Officer and the Divisional Crime Officer visited the crime scene the day she was killed and took pictures. Wisdom stated that contrary to claims that the trigger-happy vigilante member had been arrested by the police, he was seen walking freely in the community with arms. He said, “I heard people saying that the culprit, who shot my aunt, has been arrested by the police. I want the public to disregard that information. As I speak to you now, the young man still walks around the community as an OSPAC member with arms. “The police are aware of the killing. The DPO and the DCO came that very day. That was October 9. They only came to ascertain, took pictures, ask some questions and the name of the deceased, and said they would get back.” When contacted, spokesman for the state command, Nnamdi Omoni, confirmed the incident. “The Commissioner of Police has ordered an investigation into the matter in order to unravel what happened and ensure that the culprits are arrested,” Omoni said. Asked why members of the vigilante group were still bearing arms despite the order by the police hierarchy banning them from doing so, he said, “If people see them with arms and they don’t tell us, how do we know? As far as we are concerned, they are not supposed to bear arms. So, if you see anything as such, report to us and we will arrest them.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 