Oladimeji Ramon A 2019 presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Adamu Garba, has come under heavy attacks for telling Twitter founder, Jack Dorsey, to steer clear of the #EndSARS campaign and threatening legal action against him. Garba came after Dorsey, after the latter tweeted “#EndSARS” in solidarity with thousands of Nigerian youths calling for the scrapping of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, a unit of the Nigeria Police Force notorious for brazen assaults, extrajudicial killings and extortion. In a series of tweets, Garba, who hails from Adamawa State, threatened legal action against the Twitter founder. But Garba has received widespread backlash for taking on Dorsey, with many Nigerian youths calling for the suspension of his Twitter account. Popular comedian, Mr Debo Macaronii,  who is one of youths on the forefront of the #EndSARS campaign, knocked Garba, writing on his
handle, @mrmacaronidebo, “Idamu (trouble) for Adamu.” Mr Macaroni added, “@jack, don’t be intimidated, this is an example of what we are fighting for, they are Pained cus we are speaking up and this is just the beginning.. Kindly ban this idiot so he’ll have nothing else to do with his phone .. we love u Jack.” Also, popular actress, Kate Henshaw, wrote, “I am embarrassed on ‘its’ behalf,” adding that, “…humans have sense. This one, not one of us clearly.” Hip Hop singer, Wizkid, also came after Garba, writing via, @WizkidtheLegend, “Dear @jack, this is an example of privileged opportunists we have in power, who don’t know their boundaries. “@adamugarba. There’s nothing political about #EndSARS movement. It’s a United movement of Nigerian Youths saying end police brutality. Your account needs to be suspended.” Similarly confronting Garba, @Albie_xo wrote, “You are telling @jack what to do on his own platform? Is own app? Dear @jack, It will do you a lot more good if you kick Adamu Garba out of your platform. You should know that he’s one of those that supports the police brutality in Nigeria. He is against us! Thank you @jack.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com