Sampson Itode, P/Harcourt The Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, has warned members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra to relocate from the state or risk being treated as terrorists. According to a statement signed by the spokesman for the command, Nnamdi Omoni, the state police boss gave the warning after meeting with Divisional Police Officers and head of departments of the tactical units in the command on Thursday. The CP also declared war against the miscreants who attacked and looted public and private properties, as well as burnt police stations, with three policemen hacked to death in the Oyigbo Local Government Area of the state. Mukan gave officers of the command a marching order to deploy both intelligence and patrols teams across the command to ensure that looted items were recovered and the perpetrators arrested with immediate effect, noting that some of the suspects already arrested were being prosecuted. The statement reads in part, “The CP further warns members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra to relocate from the, state as machineries have been put in place to fish them out and deal with them as a terrorist group. “Again, the CP, for the umpteenth time, wishes to reiterate emphatically that Rivers State is not an IPOB state and will deal decisively with any group that carries out activities under that guise or any guise whatsoever. “IPOB has been outlawed by both the federal and state governments and to that extent it is non-existent anywhere else, including Rivers State.” The CP, however, urged parents and guardians in the state to caution their children and wards to be law-abiding or face the full wrath of the law. Mukan enjoined residents of the state to increase their security consciousness and report any suspicious character as well as the whereabouts of looted property to the nearest police station. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 