Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna A Kaduna State chieftain of the All Progressive Congress, Alhaji Yusuf Ali, on Tuesday, warned the Governor Mai-Mal Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, against seeking an extension of its tenure. Ali argued that the six-months given to the committee was sufficient to reconcile members and organise a national convention to elect new leaders. The party chieftain issued the warning in a statement, in Kaduna, on Tuesday. He said, “A majority of party members indeed welcomed the Buni-led caretaker committee with open arms. And the committee also enjoyed widespread support across the party-especially when it commenced the reconciliation of estranged party members. “We are aware that the caretaker committee has a six-months tenure within which it is to reconcile aggrieved members due to the poor handling of the party by the former Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. He is to set in motion a machinery to organise an extra-ordinary convention to elect the party’s National Working Committee. “However, four months down the line, there are speculations in the media on alleged moves by the Buni-led committee, to seek an extension. I am appealing to them not to follow that trajectory even though; the committee hasn’t refuted the media report. “The Buni-led Committee has no business fishing in troubled waters. Its work is cut out for it. It is to reconcile members and conduct elections and nothing more. I will advise that all other fundamental reforms should be left to the incoming leadership to carry out.” “I hope that by the end of October, 2020, the interim leadership of the APC should announce the time-table and subsequently appoint the convention planning committee for the conduct of the extra-ordinary convention, which is to come up some time in December. “Anything beyond the conduct of the extra-ordinary convention by Buni, will be counter-productive and will further breed controversies and discontent within the APC.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com