Joseph Olaoluwa Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc has signed a contract that will enable it provide passenger, cargo and ground handling services to Qatar Airways for five years. According to a statement emailed by the firm to our correspondent, the contract includes the provision of crew transportation and other ancillary services to the airliner. NAHCO’s Group Executive Director, Business Development and Commercial, Prince Saheed Lasisi, expressed excitement on the feat, describing it as a boost for both companies. He said, “With the new contract, which runs for five years and coupled with the additional frequencies of Qatar flights to Nigeria and Ghana, we are glad to go even further to provide the top-notched services for which we are known and have offered the airline for the past nine years. “Also, the recent addition of more Ground Support Equipment, GSE, especially the brand-new dollies, Qatar Airways and our other clients will experience the best available handling service.” In a related development, the ground handling firm signed a new contract with Azman Air to handle its international route, in addition to the one previously held for the airline’s domestic operations, the statement titled ‘NAHCO signs new contracts with Qatar, Azman, supports government export drive’, and dated October 14th said. Lasisi also noted that the contract with Azman will help the airline succeed as it plies international routes. Similarly, Group Managing Director of NAHCO, Olatokunbo Fagbemi, expressed the firm’s readiness to work with the National Trade Facilitation Committee of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to improve the nation’s capacity for export. She made the statement during a visit of the committee on an inspection tour of the company’s facility. The committee, led by its chairman, who is also a Director at the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Aliyu Abubakar, had earlier been briefed by NAHCO’s team on the company’s activities and processes. In his remarks, the committee chairman and leader of the delegation, Aliyu Abubakar, urged NAHCO to continue on the path of boosting export with the creation of additional cold rooms and storage facility for agricultural- products. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com