Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin EDO State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Thursday reviewed the 24-hour curfew earlier imposed in the state on Monday to quell civil disturbances in the wake of the hijack of #EndSARS protests. The curfew is now to commence from 4pm to 6am daily, starting from Friday, October 23, and would be reviewed after 72 hours. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, confirmed this in a statement while urging residents of the state to adhere strictly to the new directive. Meanwhile the state governor has commended the youth for insisting an end to police brutality, but expressed dissatisfaction over the hijack of the protest by hoodlums. The governor, who said this in a meeting with the civil society groups in the state, said the youth played a prominent role in his re-election and promised to always stay on the side of the masses. He said, “Anybody who says that you people (youths) are not patriotic doesn’t love Nigeria. You are not asking for anything unusual. During my campaign, I made it clear that we need to fix this country. “My biggest fear and prayer during the election was that, they should not temper with the process and if they had done so, this crisis would have started that day. God heard our prayers. “I was not surprised when the #EndSARS protest started because things are not right in Nigeria and we need to fix them because we have the capacity to do it.” Obaseki appealed to the youth to embrace peace and dialogue for the interest of the state and the nation just as he assured them that 60 per cent of those he would appoint to work with him would be persons of 40 years and above. One of the speakers, Solomon Idiogbe, while speaking on the vandalisation that took place at the Nigeria Custom Service warehouse at Aduwawa, Benin City, said the incident was a conspiracy and that there was no way such could have happened without the help of an insider. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  