JOHN ALECHENU An All Progressives Congress group called the Concerned APC Members, which gave the Mai-Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the party a 14-day ultimatum to release a schedule of activities for the national convention, has reiterated its resolve to hold street protests if, by the expiration of the ultimatum, its demands are not met. The group’s spokesperson, Abdullahi Dauda, in a telephone interview with our correspondent on Saturday, noted that the series of endorsements by the non-National Working Committee members of the National Executive Committee and some state party chairmen only strengthened the resolve of the group to press on. Dauda said, “Let them answer this simple question: Was Mai Mala-Buni elected as the national chairman of our party or as the governor of Yobe State? “As party members, the constitution of our party gives us the right to choose our leaders. In this case, out of respect for President Muhammadu Buhari, we overlooked the extra-constitutional decision to dissolve the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee. The Buni committee was set up to reconcile members and organise a convention within six months. There is no sign they want to do this; they are now talking about membership registration. “Let me tell you something: the endorsement by the non-NWC members and some state chairmen is not the answer to our question. There is no need for discussing our next step in the papers. Our demands are simple; let the committee do what it was asked to do and allow the new NWC to carry out the remaining reforms.” When contacted, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena, said the invitation to members of the group to approach the party hierarchy to discuss their grievances was still open. He urged the group to take advantage of the open-door policy of the Buni-led committee to rebuild the party. Nabena said, “As we have said before, the invitation to all our party members is still open. “Our caretaker committee chairman in the person of the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala-Buni, operates an open-door policy and is open to ideas from all party members on how to reposition the APC and make it better.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com