John Charles, Makurdi Gunmen on Wednesday killed a policeman and a commercial motorcyclist near Etenyi village, Igumale, in the Ado Local Government Area of Benue State. A resident, who simply identified himself as Joseph, told our correspondent on the phone that the gunmen stormed the village around 6.30am and laid ambush along the Rijo-Ogege bridge leading to Igumale. The late police officer was said to be on his way to resume duty at the Igumale divisional police station when he ran into the ambush, while the motorcyclist was on his way to Otukpo. Joseph said, “I was traveling from Igumale to Otukpo to see my family on my motorcycle. But by the time I got to Etenyi village, a few meters away from the local government secretariat, I heard gunshots. “I ran for safety. Not too long after the gunshots, I saw two dead bodies in a police van. Nobody knew what happened before those people were killed. There is no crisis in Ado presently and for over three months now, we have not experienced such a thing in Ado.” The Chairman of the council area, James Oche, confirmed the incident. “The incident happened early this morning when the gunmen opened fire on police officers. One of them died instantly; the bullet scattered his head. One passerby, who was on a motorcycle, was also killed,” he added. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Catherine Anene, who confirmed the incident, said the two dead bodies were recovered from the scene and taken to a mortuary while investigation had commenced. Anene said, “Our men in Ado were on patrol this morning when suddenly, some gunmen opened fire on the patrol vehicle. “One of the police officers was hit with another man who was on his motorcycle. They both died and their bodies taken to mortuary in the town.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com