Hindi Livinus, Yola A Christian, Istifanus Umaru, has petitioned the police, Department of State Services, and the Chief Judge of Adamawa State, over the abduction of his Muslim Fulani wife by a Fulani man whom he claimed wanted to terminate their marriage. Umaru, who is seeking the state government’s intervention to save his four-year-old union, said his “predator,” one Bello Bakari, a Muslim lawyer, had abducted his wife, Amina, with the view of marrying her because he (Bakari) considered their marriage a taboo. Umaru has also alleged threats to his life, saying Bakari had openly threatened to unleash the Fulani militia to end the marriage, insisting he was not entitled to marry Amina on religious grounds, as he (Umaru) is a Christian. In the petition, Umaru claimed that Bakari told him to his face that he (Bakari) had the blessing of the Muslim council in the state to interfere in the marriage and that the Christian Association of Nigeria was also in the picture. Umaru said, “When Bakari told me he was engaged by the Muslim council to interfere in my marriage with Amina, and that the Christian Association of Nigeria was aware of the move, I replied that my marriage needed no intervention from any of the two religious bodies because my marriage with Amina was done at a court. If there were any problems, only a court can address them. “Yet, he (Bakari) threatened and intimidated me to give up the marriage on the account of my religious difference with my wife. He cited the violent clashes between farmers and herders, stressing that the Fulani race was ready to end my marriage at all costs.” When contacted, Bakari denied the allegations. He explained that he was informed by the lady’s relations that she and Umaru were not legally married but merely cohabiting. But Umaru insisted he was legally married to Amina, adding that her parents consented to their union. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  