Ade Adesomoju, Abuja The High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in Apo, Abuja, has ordered the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the Divisional Police Officer in A.Y.A, Abuja, to grant bail on liberal terms to a man, Yakubu Akuki, who has been detained for about 44 days. Our correspondent on Tuesday saw a certified true copy of the order issued by Justice Olukayode Adeniyi on October 9, 2020, which was Akuki’s 40th day in detention. Akuki is allegedly being held on the instruction of the Chief Detail of the IGP. The detainee’s lawyers, who had earlier on October 8, 2020, written the IGP to demand his release, stated that their client’s arrest and detention were an offshoot of a business transaction between him and an in-law to the IGP’s Chief Detail. The business was said to involve sale of precious stones. According to the lawyers, both their demand letter and the court order issued by Justice Adeniyi on October 9, 2020, have not been complied with as of Tuesday. The judge had ordered the police to grant Akuki on “very liberal terms,” after his lawyer, A. S Suleiman, moved his ex parte application. Joined in the suit as defendants are the Inspector General of Police, the Chief Detail of the IGP, the Divisional Police Officer of A. Y. A, Abuja, and IGP Detail Officer, ASP Ibrahim. “Accordingly,  it is hereby ordered that the respondents, especially the 3rd respondent (A.Y.A DPO) shall forthwith cause the applicant to be admitted to bail upon very liberal terms pending the hearing and determination of the applicant’s substantive motion on notice for the enforcement of his fundamental rights,” the judge had ordered. The judge then ordered the suit to be served along with the order on the IGP and the other respondents. He fixed November 3, 2020 for the hearing of the main suit. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com