Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki Supporters of the All Progressives Congress in Ebonyi State under the aegis of stakeholders and elders of APC, have petitioned the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee alleging plans to foist an illegal leadership on the party. The group in the letter dated October 19, 2020, obtained by The PUNCH, in Abakaliki on Sunday, alleged that the Eze Nwachukwu-led State Executive Council of the party was operating illegally after a court voided its emergence based on a suit filed by the Ben Nwobasi-led faction of the party in April, 2019. The petitioners claimed that the Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu and the former Senator and now a member of the National Assembly Service Commission, Julius Ucha, were each supporting separate factions of the party within the state. Factional chairman, Eze Nwachukwu is said to enjoy Onu’s backing while Ucha shows a preference for the Ben Nwobasi-led faction. The petitioners urged Buni to set up a caretaker committee which should carry out the proposed membership registration while efforts are made to resolve the long-standing dispute among party leaders in the state. They also urged the party to ensure that those who refused to carry out the directive by the National Executive Committee to withdraw pending litigations from court are punished in accordance with existing party laws. The petition read in part, “The state of the party in Ebonyi state which moved us, as loyal and conscientious party stakeholders and elders neutral in the aforementioned battle, to try to save the soul of the party and steer it to safety and stability. That is the standpoint on which we are sending you this letter.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  