Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The 2021 Appropriation Bill may suffer setback due to the growing tension over the #EndSARS protests, The PUNCH has learnt. It was learnt on Wednesday that several members of the National Assembly are restricting their movements and boycotting the complex premises. A member of the House of Representatives from the South-West, who was on his way out of Abuja on Monday, informed our correspondent about how protesters blocked the section of the 10-lane Airport Road in Abuja, forcing him to make a detour to another route to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport. Another member of the House from the South-South told our correspondent that he had been home this week. The lawmaker lamented the growing crisis, condemning the alleged inaction by the Muhammadu Buhari-led regime. When asked if he attended plenary on Tuesday, the lawmaker, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “I was not in the chamber. I later learnt about what happened at plenary. As we speak, I am at home. There is growing tension in the land and almost everywhere is now unsafe.” Our correspondent observed that while budget defence sessions should have started fully, legislative activities were skeletal on Wednesday. Both the House Committees on Public Accounts and Public Petitions sat on Wednesday, while there was no invitation to the Press Corps to cover any budget hearing. The House had scheduled passage of the 2021 budget for December 3, 2020. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, had on Tuesday asked chairmen and vice-chairmen of committees to see the chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, Aliyu Betara, for the timetable on the budget, noting that the process had been scheduled to end on December 3. The House had also adjourned plenary till November 24, to allow committees organise budget defence sessions with Federal Government’s ministries, departments and agencies. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com