Yoruba World Congress has faulted the silence of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for being silent over the shootings at Lekki toll gate on Tuesday. It also described the shootings at protesters at the Lekki toll gate by soldiers as a declaration of war against the Yoruba people of Nigeria. This was contained in a statement after a virtual emergency meeting of the organisation held on Friday and signed by the President-General of the group, Banji Akintoye. The statement read, “President Buhari’s address sounded like a reluctant address crafted to touch mostly on inconsequentials and to avoid the most compelling aspects of the crisis. To the surprise of all Nigerians and the whole world, Buhari did not acknowledge that the youth’s protest started peacefully and remained commendably peaceful until the protesters were shot at in Lekki, Lagos. “The whole world had watched as the youthful protesters conducted themselves in an orderly manner, and even as they cleaned up the trash that was generated by them in the streets. Most Nigerians accept that the demands being made by the protesting youths were reasonable and justified in the interest of Nigeria. “We all saw on the video the deaths and injuries that the shootings caused and we are shocked that President Buhari did not say anything about the shooting at the peaceful and unarmed protesters. He did not say anything about the killing and wounding of the Youths. He did not express any concern or sympathy with the victims, their parents, and relations. “President Buhari also said nothing about another very troubling fact. There was manifestly present, during the Youth’s peaceful protests, an effort by some persons to infiltrate bands of thugs and hoodlums into the peaceful protests, obviously for the purpose of disrupting and discrediting the peaceful process, and thereby manufacturing an excuse for a repressive governmental clampdown on peaceful protesters. “Inevitably, we Nigerians are asking many troubling questions. Does there exist in this country a secret paramilitary force that has access to Nigerian Army Uniforms and that can be employed by its owners against targets in the Nigerian population? Is there a group of people in this country that have a special agenda of their own and who are employing the authority and resources of the Nigerian State to implement their agenda?”