Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has lamented that the ongoing violence and looting across the country have distorted the essence of the #EndSARS protests spearheaded by some well-meaning youths. Lawan, in a statement personally signed by him in Abuja on Monday, called for the arrest and prosecution of those involved in the wanton destruction and looting of both public and private property. He also urged the genuine #EndSARS protesters to leave the streets and sheathe their swords to enable the government to address their five-point demands and implement other programmes announced by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Lawan said the National Assembly would do everything within its powers to ensure justice for victims of alleged brutality perpetrated by operatives of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad over the years. He said the federal legislature would work with the executive arm of government to ensure justice for all. He stated, “I want to seize this opportunity to reassure our youths that the National Assembly will collaborate with the executive to ensure justice for victims of misconduct and rights abuses by personnel of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police. “In the same vein, to discourage impunity, we will insist that the perpetrators of the alleged abuses be prosecuted and sanctioned as appropriate. “We will also work with the executive to ensure that the five-point demands of the #EndSARS protesters, which the government has committed itself to, are fully implemented.” He said the National Assembly would put in place necessary legal framework for an efficient and effective police force. The Senate President stated, “In spite of the unfortunate hijack of the protests against police brutality by hoodlums to unleash horrifying violence, arson, looting and wanton destruction of public and private property in the country, we will ensure that government fulfills the commitment it has made to the well-meaning agitators for police reform and good governance. “The National Assembly is fully committed to putting the necessary legislation in place for comprehensive reform of the police to enhance their institutional integrity and efficiency.” Lawan condoled with the families of victims of the violence that paralysed parts of the country for days; even as he called for a thorough investigation into acts of criminality. He especially paid tributes to security agents, who lost their lives in the line of duty. Ubah asks Buhari to probe Lekki shooting Meanwhile, the senator representing the Anambra South Senatorial District, Ifeanyi Ubah, has condemned the shooting of #EndSARS protesters in the Lekki area of Lagos State last Tuesday and called on Buhari to set up a panel of inquiry to investigate the “barbaric shooting of peaceful protesters.” Ubah, in a statement he personally signed on Monday, expressed deep sadness over the incident and condoled with the families of all those that lost their lives. He said, “I am deeply saddened by reports of extrajudicial shooting and barbaric killing of peaceful protesters in Lekki, Lagos, Nigeria. “I wish to categorically condemn in its entirety these shootings by security operatives, who are meant to protect the citizens. “These unlawful shootings by the military and security agents at unarmed protesters are a gross violation of the right to life as enshrined in Section 33 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999. “In view of this, I hereby call on the Federal Government and all relevant security agencies involved to commence immediate investigation into this matter with a view to serving justice to the deceased and their loved ones. “I also call on the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, to assuage the feelings of the citizenry.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 