Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, on Monday, inspected damaged public and private properties in Surulere 1 Federal Constituency of Lagos State where he is representing. He absolved the constituents of being part of those who vandalised shops and looted them. Gbajabiamila, whose visit came after the looting spree that took place in Surulere, following reactions to the shooting of the #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki toll gate, addressed the residents at Shitta Roundabout, Surulere, and visited the affected shops and the Bode Thomas Police Station. A statement by the Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, said he addressed the residents and he assured them that the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force had been totally disbanded. The statement was titled, ‘#EndSARS Aftermath: Gbajabiamila visits sites of damaged properties in Surulere, Lagos…Commends police for restoring law and order…Constituents recount ordeals.’ Gbajabiamila said, “You have all spoken and the government heard you loud and clear. While in Abuja where you sent me to represent you, I heard all your complaints. All that happened in Lekki is what we have all seen and it is being investigated. But you see, the social media has its good and bad until it is fully unravelled that we can know the next step to take. “On the issue of #EndSARS, you should all know that I am there for you as your representative. It is all you want we are going to do. #EndSARS cannot come up again, because there is no more SARS. “You see all that happened at Adeniran Ogunsanya and Bode Thomas, I can boast that it was not carried out by children from Surulere; we all know they (the attackers and looters) came from outside Surulere, because I know my people.” He commended the officers of the Nigerian Police Force for restoring law and order in the area. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com