Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The Chief Medical Director, University College, Hospital, Ibadan, Prof. Jesse Otegbayo, has stressed the need for public-private partnerships in delivering quality health services to Nigerians. Otegbayo said this while receiving medical consumables and equipment from the Lead Generation Initiative, a non-governmental organisation chaired by Mr Shina Peller. Other items donated by the NGO include two sets of rechargeable pulse odometers, 50 pieces of personal protective gowns and 10 pieces of nebulizers. Otegbayo said apart from the subventions being received from the Federal Government, the ability of UCH to fulfill its mission as a public tertiary medical institution lies in the support given by donors. According to him, as a public hospital, UCH gives, at least, N100m worth of free medical services to indigent patients who could not afford the cost of treatments annually. He said, “The equipment and consumables donated by the Lead Generation Initiative and other philanthropists are being used by our patients with COVID-19 infections. A number of them come here without a dime. UCH is a public hospital, therefore, we are not supposed to charge commercial rates.” “Every year, we treat indigent patients who don’t have money to pay for their treatments to the tune of over N100m and we have no right to turn back any patient so we depend on donations like this to take care of such patients. We have some Nigerians who are helping us along that line. Peller, who described health as a critical sector in any nation, said, “In the last six months we have been battling with the coronavirus pandemic. This has put a lot of pressure on our health system. “It shows that everyone needs to rally round the sector. We know how important UCH is to the state and the entire country. We think of giving back to society; we are sure that the medical supply would go a long way in supporting the services of the UCH. We shall continue to offer support.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com